{\rtf1\ansi\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fswiss Arial;}{\f1\fmodern Courier New;}{\f2\fswiss Symbol;}{\f3\froman Times New Roman;}{\f4\fswiss Serpentine;}{\f5\fnil System;}}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue0;\red0\green0\blue0;\red127\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red127\green0\blue127;\red0\green0\blue255;}
{\stylesheet{\fs48 \snext0 Normal;}
}\pard\plain
{\up +}
{\up $}
{\up #}
\pard\keepn\qc {\up K}
\b\fs48\cf1\cb2 JED Help\plain\cf2\cb2 
\par \pard\keepn\qc \f1\b\fs28 Jedi Knight Level Ed{\up K}
itor\plain\cf2\cb2 
\par \pard\keepn\qc \f1\b\fs20 Ver 0.93 beta\plain\cf2\cb2 \line

\par \pard \fs20 
\par \pard\qc \{bml bm1.bmp\}\fs16  \cf3 Jedi Knight, \ul Dark Forces\plain\fs16\cf3\cb2 , \ul Mysteries Of The Si{\up K}
th\plain\fs16\cf3\cb2  are \'a9 \'ae \'99 LucasArts Entertainment Company 1994-1998. JED and its Home Pages,Documents are \'a9 The \ul Code Alliance\plain\fs16\cf3\cb2  1997-1998. All copyrights and trademarks remain the property of their respective owners.\fs0\cf2 
\par \fs20 
\par \b Code Alliance Homepage  \uldb http://www.darkjedi.com/\plain\b\fs20\cf2\cb2 \plain\cf2\cb2 
\par \fs20 
\par  \fs0 
\par \b\fs22\cf4 Programmed By Alexei Novikov\plain\cf2\cb2 
\par \b\fs22\cf4 
\par \fs20 Help Version 0.93 written by Pete Klassen\plain\cf2\cb2 
\par \pard \fs20 
\par 
\par \pard\qc \b\cf5 Before distributing any levels read and understand your Jedi Knight License agreement on page 63 of the Jedi Knight instruction manual and on pages 36-38 of the Mysteries Of The Sith instruction manual.\plain\cf2\cb2 
\par \pard \fs20 
\par 
\par \pard\li715\fi-355 \f2 \'b7\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab \tab \uldb Introduction\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \fs0 
\par \pard \fs20 \tab \fs0 
\par \pard\li715\fi-355 \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab \tab \uldb Installation\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \fs0 
\par \pard \fs20 \tab \fs0 
\par \pard\li715\fi-355 \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab \tab \uldb What's new in the version 0.93?\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \fs0 
\par \pard \fs20 
\par \pard\li355 \f2 \'b7\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab \tab \uldb Keyboard summary\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \fs0 
\par \pard \fs20 
\par \pard\li715\fi-355 \f2 \'b7\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab \tab \uldb The JED main window\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \f2 \'b7\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab \tab \uldb 3D Preview window\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \f2 \'b7\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab \tab Other JED windows:\fs0 
\par \pard \fs20 
\par \tab \tab \tab \uldb Item Editor\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \fs0 
\par \fs20 \tab \tab \tab \uldb Resource Picker\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \fs0 
\par \fs20 \tab \tab \tab \uldb Placed Cogs\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \fs0 
\par \fs20 \tab \tab \tab \uldb Find Dialog\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \fs0 
\par \fs20 \tab \tab \tab \uldb Tool Window\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \fs0 
\par \fs20 \tab \tab \tab \uldb Consistency Checker\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \tab \tab \tab \uldb Level Header Editor\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \fs0 
\par \fs20 \tab \tab \tab \uldb Episode Editor\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \fs0 
\par \fs20 \tab \tab \tab \uldb Template Creator\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \tab \tab \tab \uldb Map Settings\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \fs0 
\par \fs20       \tab \tab \tab \uldb Options\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \fs0 
\par \pard\li715\fi-355 \f2\fs20 
\par \'b7\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab \tab \uldb The Menus\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \fs0 
\par \pard \fs20 
\par \pard\li715\fi-355 \f2 \'b7\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab \tab \uldb Glossary\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \fs0 
\par \pard \fs20 
\par 
\par  \tab \b\ul Disclaimer\plain\cf2\cb2 
\par \fs20 
\par \tab The Code Alliance makes no guaranties or warranties in respect to the performance of this software. You use this software at your own risk.The Code Alliance will not be held responsible for any loss of data or other losses resulting from installing, downloading or otherwise using this software.The Code Alliance will not be held responsible for the end users application and distribution of files generated with this software. The responsibility for the user to comply with LEC license requirements rests with the end user. The Code Alliance reserves the right to modify this software or otherwise change it.The Code Alliance reserves the right to make reasonable changes to ensure the end user complies with LEC license requirements.\fs0 
\par \pard \fs20 
\par 
\par \pard\brdrb\brdrs \fs0 
\par \pard \fs20 
\par \page
{\up +}
{\up $}
{\up #}
\pard\keepn\qc \b\fs48\cf1 What's New\plain\cf2\cb2 
\par \pard\keepn\qc \fs20 JED Revision History \fs0 
\par \pard \fs20 
\par \f3\b\fs24 
\par \cf6 Version 0.93 beta\plain\cf2\cb2 
\par \pard\li715\fi-355 \b\fs20 Additions\plain\cf2\cb2 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab \uldb F9 Scale function\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  is enhanced to allow scaling along X,Y,Z or Grid Z axis individually, not just in all directions.\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab Holding Alt while cycling through possible items under cursor ( i.e. - when you click the left mouse button several times without moving the mouse) now cycles backwards.\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 You can now change the CMP used as palette when you view a \ul 3DO\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  in \uldb Resource Picker\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 .\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab JED now shows a circle designating radius for a selected \ul light\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 .\fs0 
\par \pard\li715\fi-355 \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab JED now invokes an "Add \ul COG\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 " dialog when you click on a COG's variable of type "COG" that equals -1.\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab Added an option to hide things/lights when not in thing/light mode.\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab Holding "Alt" while dragging objects now limits its transformation to one grid axis.\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab You can now manipulate shapes (prefabs) - import them from sectors and delete them.\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab The last open file in the recent file list now moves on top\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab Pressing + and - to adjust gamma in \uldb 3D Preview\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  in OpenGL and Direct3D IM mode doesn't display warning message about having to reload 3D preview, instead reloads it. Note that it can take some time though.\fs0 
\par \pard\li715\fi-355 \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Added "Blocks Light" \ul adjoin\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  flag that tells JED to treat the adjoin as an opaque \ul surface\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  in lighting claculation.\fs0 
\par \pard \f2\fs20 
\par \pard\li715\fi-355 \plain\b\fs20\cf2\cb2 Bugfixes/Improvements\plain\cf2\cb2 
\par \f2\b\fs20 \'b7\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab Fixed a bug in extracting .COG from GOB/GOOs when you try to edit a .COG that's in the game's GOB/GOO files.\fs0 
\par \f2\b\fs20 \'b7\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab Fixed a bug in .SurfaceUpdate() DLL interface function.\fs0 
\par \f2\b\fs20 \'b7\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab Fixed a bug of not being able to enter capital S in \ul layer\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  name\fs0 
\par \f2\b\fs20 \'b7\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab Fixed bug in .PickResource() \ul plugin\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  function\fs0 
\par \pard \f3\b\fs24\cf6 
\par Version 0.92 beta\plain\cf2\cb2 
\par \pard\li715\fi-355 \b\fs20 Additions\plain\cf2\cb2 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 When you click "Edit COG" in Placed COG editor on a COG that's inside a \ul GOB\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  file, JED now offers you to extract it to project directory to edit it.\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 When you preview a multiple \ul MAT\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  in Resource Picker, a scrollbar will now appear that will let you scroll through all cells in the file.\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Now you can use rotate,flip and scale F9 tools on things, lights and frames as well as sectors.\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab By pressing Shift+I in 3D Preview you can now insert a \ul thing\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  at camera position.\fs0 
\par \pard\li715\fi-355 \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab "Join" function now works on sectors as well as surfaces.\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab Added a lot of DLL functionality\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab \ul Template\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  Creator now reloads template file before editing, making sure that you don't lose any changes you've made indepenedently to the .TPL file.\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab Added "Duplicate" button to Placed COG editor that lets you place another copy of the currently selected COG. Useful for doors and such. Also, Placed cog editor screen updates are sped up somewhat.\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab When you change a template in Template Creator all the things that use it are now updated.\fs0 
\par \pard\li715\fi-355 \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab The plugin interface unit is now the same for Delphi 2.0 and 3.0\fs0 
\par \pard \f2\fs20 
\par \pard\li715\fi-355 \plain\b\fs20\cf2\cb2 Bugfixes/Improvements\plain\cf2\cb2 
\par \f2\b\fs20 \'b7\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab Fixed an omission in DLL plug-in interface that made it impossible to make DLLs using some programming languages.\fs0 
\par \f2\b\fs20 \'b7\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab Fixed a bug causing plug-ins written in Delphi 3.0 cause access violation on exit from JED.\fs0 
\par \pard \f3\b\fs24\cf6 
\par Version 0.91 beta\plain\cf2\cb2 
\par \pard\li715\fi-355 \b\fs20 Additions\plain\cf2\cb2 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Added an option to make \uldb Placed COGs\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  window stay on top.\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Added DLL Plugin interface (old OLE still works).\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 
\par \plain\b\fs20\cf2\cb2 Bugfixes/Improvements\plain\cf2\cb2 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab \uldb Template Creator\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  now allows you to replace existing templates (be careful when doing that).\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab Changed 3DO preview slightly so that its failure to initialize doesn't disable template/3DO pickers.\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab Fixed bug causing \uldb 3D Preview\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  go black when you look straight up or straight down.\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab "Multiple" now appears after width/height info for multiple MAT files in \uldb Resource Picker.\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \fs0 
\par \pard\li715\fi-355 \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab Fixed a bug giving "not enough memory for Z buffer" error after several reloadings of 3D Preview.\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab Fixed a bug displaying wrong textures in 3D Preview when using OpenGL.\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Fixed a bug that caused thing orienation to display incorrectly in 3D Preview (this bug was fixed before, but somehow crawled back in).\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 "Bring thing to surface" now changes PCH,YAW and ROL of the thing so that it "stands" on slanted surfaces.\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab Changed \uldb Keyboard\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  menu a bit to fit 640x480 screen.\fs0 
\par \pard\li715\fi-355 \fs20 
\par \pard \f3\b\fs24\cf6 Version 0.9 beta\plain\cf2\cb2 
\par \pard\li715\fi-355 \b\fs20 Additions\plain\cf2\cb2 
\par \pard\li805\fi-445 \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Added overlapping \ul sector\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  detection in consistency checker. Disabled by default (as it slows things down), you can enable it in "\uldb Options|Misc. Options\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 ".\fs0 
\par \pard\li715\fi-355 \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Added an option to rotate/flip around Grid in \uldb Tools\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 .\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Added a "Snap View to Object" (Alt+S) option - centers the view on the selected object.\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Added "Join" function - position two surfaces back to back, select them both and press "J" - they will be cleaved and their common area will become a pair of adjoined surfaces.\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Added "Extrude And Expand" feature (Ctrl+X).\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Added "Bring thing/light To Surface" function. Select a surface, then switch to thing mode, select a thing (or to light mode and select a light) and press "B". The thing/light will be brought to the middle of the surface and offset to the appropriate distance from it (0.01 units for lights and half of thing's bounding box for things).\fs0 
\par \pard\li715\fi-355 \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Added "Insert thing at surface" function to \uldb 3D Preview\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 . Select a surface in 3D preview and press "I" - a thing will be placed at the middle of it.\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Added and option to confirm "Revert to Saved" function.\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Added "Layer" field in \uldb "Find Surface" dialog\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 .\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Added "Prep" button in \uldb Tools rotation\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  dialog. The way it works is you select two surfaces (multiselect one and select another) and press this button, JED calculates the rotation parameters for a rotation that would place these two surfaces in one plane. After this preparation you only need to select the sectors to rotate and press "Rotate". \fs0 
\par \pard\li715\fi-355 \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Added "Jump to Object" function that lets you jump to a specific object (sector, surface,etc) by its number. You can also jump to surfaces by their absolute number (their number in JKL) - you just need to enter one number instead of two.\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 
\par \plain\b\fs20\cf2\cb2 Bugfixes/Improvements\plain\cf2\cb2 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab \uldb Consistency checker\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  now doesn't report "Sector not \ul convex\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 " error for sectors with "Show as 3DO" flag set - i.e. the sectors that are to be exported as 3DOs, not part of level geometry.\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Redone \uldb 3D Preview\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  low level code.\fs0 
\par \pard\li715\fi-355 \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Fixed a bug in undo not undoing sector deletion completely (surfaces adjoined to the deleted sectors weren't restored).\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Fixed a bug of undo information not being saved for some \uldb Tools\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  operations.\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Fixed a bug that made small surfaces color-filled when using texturing tools.\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Redone lighting calculation (sped up about 4 times). Kept an option to revert to the old lighting calculation for compatibility.\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 You can now add/subtract things and surfaces to/from multiselection in \uldb 3D Preview\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  by Shift+Mouse Click. It is an equivalent of selecting this objects and pressing space. I.e. - it is affected by "\ul Multiselection mode\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 " setting.\fs0 
\par \pard\li715\fi-355 \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 When you click on surface/thing in \uldb 3D preview\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 , the main view is no longer centered on the selected object. Use "Snap view to Object" if you want to center it.\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Fixed a bug causing "Invalid pointer operation" when performing operation on things with large (10 and more) number of frames.\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 JED now prints a warning when you form non-convex or non planar surfaces and non-convex sectors by merging.\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 3DO export and 3DO import are changed slightly:\fs0 
\par \pard\li715\fi-355 \fs20 \tab   \i Export:\plain\cf2\cb2 
\par \pard \fs20 \tab   - The meshes are now named by the layer names.\fs0 
\par \fs20 \tab   - Sectors in the same layer are merged into one mesh.\fs0 
\par \fs20 \tab   - Adjoined surfaces are not exported.\fs0 
\par \fs20 \tab  \i  Import:\plain\cf2\cb2 
\par \fs20 \tab   - Each mesh is imported to a layer named like the mesh.\fs0 
\par \pard\li715\fi-355 \fs20 \tab   - "Preview as 3DO" flag is set on imported sectors.\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 
\par \plain\b\fs20\cf2\cb2 OLE Scripting\plain\cf2\cb2 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Added .IsConvex function to TOLESector. Returns true if sector is convex and false otherwise.\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Added .IsConvex and .IsPlanar functions to TOLESurface. Returns true if  sector is convex/planar and false otherwise.\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Added a bunch of OLE functions to retrieve consistency errors.\fs0 
\par \pard \fs20 
\par \f3\b\fs24\cf6 Version 0.85 beta\plain\cf2\cb2 
\par \pard\li715\fi-355 \b\fs20 Additions\plain\cf2\cb2 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Added "Extrude by" function that lets you specify explicitly by how much to extrude.\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Added Undo. Enabled by default. Go to Options|Environment to disable it. It can go up to 4 steps back.\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Added sa new tab in Options - "Misc. Options" containing some settings that alter minor, yet important details in JED's editing operations. Adjust them to your liking. Here are the current options:\fs0 
\par \pard\li1345 \fs20 An option to either move or keep frames when you move a thing.\fs0 
\par \fs20 An option to enabled/disable undo\fs0 
\par \fs20 An option to GOB "smart" - i.e. only put files that are used in any of project's JKLs, items.dat or models.dat. Be careful as enabling it slows down GOBbing quite a bit and may actually miss some things.\fs0 
\par \pard\li715\fi-355 \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Added two scrollbars to rotate and tilt 3DO view and the old left/right buttons are removed.\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Added "Grid Move step" setting in Map Settings, that controls how the grid moves with G+Mouse. For istance setting it to 0.5 will make grid take only X,Y,Z positions with X,Y and Z which are multiples of 0.5: 0.5, 1, 1.5, etc.\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 
\par \plain\b\fs20\cf2\cb2 Bugfixes/Improvements\plain\cf2\cb2 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Fixed a bug giving access violation at times when merging and deleting sectors when 3D Preview is active.\fs0 
\par \pard\li715\fi-355 \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Fixed a bug of not being able to change map background color when using OpenGL renderer.\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 You can now have subdirectories in "Plugins" directory which will appear as submenus.\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 JED now does not require palettized texture support to use OpenGL for 3D preview. However, if your OpenGL implementation doesn't support palettized textures (like Riva OpenGL ICD), significatly larger amout of memory will be used by 3D Preview.\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Fixed a bug in GOBbing .BM files from ui\'5cbm\'5c subdirectory.\fs0 
\par \pard\li715\fi-355 \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Fixed a bug in 3D Preview thing selection in OpenGL mode.\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 "Add Value", "Remove value" buttons on Item Editor now work on multiselections. Be careful doing that though.\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 
\par \plain\b\fs20\cf2\cb2 OLE Scripting\plain\cf2\cb2 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Added .EditXXXFlags functions to invoke flag editor dialogs.\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Added .PickGeo/Tex/lightmode functions to invoke flag editor dialogs to invoke the corresponding dialogs.\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Added TOLESurface.Nvertices property. Can't believe something like this was left out for 2 version!\fs0 
\par \pard\li715\fi-355 \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Added .NLayers property to TOLELevel.\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Added .LevelFile property to TJedApp\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Added a set of procedures to manipulate Undo.\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Added .GetJEDSetting property to retrieve JED's settings. Just in case.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \pard \f3\b\fs24\cf6 Version 0.81 beta\plain\cf2\cb2 
\par \pard\li715\fi-355 \b\fs20 Additions\plain\cf2\cb2 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Added an option to double-buffer the software wireframe renderer (removes that darn blinking).\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Added an option to scale the textures when the geometry is scaled.\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Added a confirmation before testing level\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Added "Copy camera as frame" function - "F" in 3D Preview. Copies the current camera position and orientation to clipboard in frame format - i.e. "(x/y/z:pch/yaw/rol)".\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Added "Set as default" button on Map Settings window to save current map settings (Grid, various steps thing view mode and multiselection mode) and use them as default ones.\fs0 
\par \pard\li715\fi-355 \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Added an "Autosave" option.\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Added some flag descriptions\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Added "Use in COG" function. Select sector, surface or thing in the editor and press "U".\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Added "Get selected item" in Placed COG editor that gets the value of the currently selected item in the editor into COG's value slot.\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Added an option to set grid size. Be careful with that - large values can make grid redraw VERY SLOWLY!\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Added "Paste" button on Item Editor that lets you paste X,Y,Z and PCH,YAW,ROL values to current thing/frame copied to clipboard by "Copy As Frame" operation. Or copied to clipboard in any other way in standard \ul JK\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  frame format "(X/Y/Z:PCH/YAW/ROL)" or vector format "(X/Y/Z)".\fs0 
\par \pard\li715\fi-355 \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Added "Toggle Fully lit" menu item - a shortcut to the same thing in the Options.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \b Bugfixes/Improvements\plain\cf2\cb2 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 When you insert sectors/things/lights if you inserted just one it's no longer multiselected.\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 "Snap grid to item" now works in frame mode.\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 You can now customize 3D Preview movement step.\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Fixed a bug in sector pasting that didn't release the clipboard after pasting is done.\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Fixed a bug in thing copying/pasting.\fs0 
\par \pard\li715\fi-355 \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 JED now accepts JK directory tree in project directory. I.e. - you can put, say, .COG files in cog\'5c subdirectory\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Fixed bug in loading JKLs with things out of sectors giving "Sector index out of bounds -1" error.\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Fixed a bug with 3D Preview not updating the "eternal emptiness" areas.\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Fixed bug in GOBbbing/GOOing that put jkstrings.uni,credits.uni, etc. to ui\'5c directory instead of misc\'5c\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Changed "Save JKL, GOB and test" to "Save JKL and Test" - GOBBing is no longer necessary. To test project without Saving a JKL go to project directory and start the file "Test_ProjectName.bat" - it will be created the first time to test the level.\fs0 
\par \pard\li715\fi-355 \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Returned map rotation with R+Mouse and also fixed a bug in it. Works both in new and old control mode. The difference is subtle, but there is a difference.\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Picking a template in Template creator now sets the "parent" field as well as "template" field.\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Shift+Mouse Click now multiselects the item under cursor.\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Now if you have a thing selected in frame mode, you can move it. Unlike moving in thing mode, in this case the thing frames are not affected.\fs0 
\par \pard\li715\fi-355 \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 "Txscale" field of surface is slit in two - "U scale" and "V scale" letting you stretch/shrink texture independently in both dimensions.\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Now when you change flipped flag of the surface or Uscale/Vscale, the surface is automatically retextured (i.e. - you don't need to "straighten it").\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 When you load a .JKL or a .JED file created by older version of JED, JED automatically sets "Texture flipped" flag for textures whose textures are flipped.\fs0 
\par \pard\li715\fi-355 \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 "Export as 3DO" and "Import as 3DO" now transfer transparency information on surfaces.\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Fixed bug appearing sometimes when adding strings in string editor.\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Adjoin/Unadjoin now works on surface multiselections\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Items that are selected AND multiselected are now displayed in different color (orange by default) than either selected or multiselected.\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 JED now asks to save changes (if they were made) before importing.\fs0 
\par \pard\li715\fi-355 \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Fixed a bug in "View to Grid" function. I can't believe nobody ever reported it!\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Fixed a bug in losing grid settings when switching renderers.\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Fixed a bug giving "Index out of bounds" errors on "Revert To Saved"\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Corrected COG parameter handling of type "COG". \fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 "Flip" tool now works on things as well.\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Fixed a bug in displaying objects that don't have a 3DO associated in 3D preview - they are shown as white 1x1 squares at object location in Direct3D renderer. In OpenGL renderer they aren't shown.\fs0 
\par \pard\li715\fi-355 \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Modified OLE scripting registration so that JED plugins would only work while JED is running (before that launching a plugin while JED isn't running would launch JED without giving any control to the user). So now "CreateObject("Jed.App")" will fail when JED isn't running.\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Expanded Plugin interface a bit - you can now supply a description file with your plug-in that lets you specify the menu caption and the keyboard shortcut to use (The description file should be named plugin_file_name.dsc. I.e if plug-in is Myplugin.exe, the description will be Myplugin.exe.dsc - that's right, two extensions). See JKtree plug-in included with JED.\fs0 
\par \pard\li715\fi-355 \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Fixed a few bugs that could lead to invalid multiselections.\fs0 
\par \pard \tab 
\par \pard\li715\fi-355 \b\fs20 OLE Scripting\plain\cf2\cb2 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Fixed bug in CurLT property\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Added .PickSPR(), .PickPAR(), .PickPER() and .ReloadTemplates methods to TJedApp object.\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Picking functions (.PickXXX) now pop up the resource picker in front and return the focus to the calling application when done. \fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20  Added .uscale and .vscale surface properties. Old "txscale" property is still supported, when you read it it returns uscale and when you write it it set both uscale and vscale. \fs0 
\par \pard\li715\fi-355 \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Fixed a bug in TOLESector.GetVertex()\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Added .GetNormal() function and .NormalX, .NormalY and .NormalZ properties to TOLESurface to retrieve surface's normal. Note - you can't set surface's normal, JED calculates it from surface's data.\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Added TOLECOG interface to access level's placed COGs. Also added methods .AddCOG(), .GetCOG() and .DeleteCOG() to TOLELevel.\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Added .PanMessage() method - to add messages to JED's message pan.\fs0 
\par \pard\li715\fi-355 \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Added .Update and .Release to TOLELight object.\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Added .CurSF, .CurED, .CurVX and .CurFR properties.\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Added .SendKey() and .ExecuteMenu() methods that let you simulate pressing a \ul key\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  or picking a menu in JED.\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Added a set of methods to get/set position/orientation of grid and camera\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Added a set of methods to get/set position/orientation of 3D Preview camera.\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Added a bunch of OLE functions to access multiselection\fs0 
\par \pard\li715\fi-355 \f2\fs20 
\par \pard \f3\b\fs24\cf6 Version 0.8 beta\plain\cf2\cb2 
\par \pard\li715\fi-355 \b\fs20 Additions\plain\cf2\cb2 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Added "Planarize Surface" function\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Added multiselection\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Added recovery tools (delete surface, build surface and sector)\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Added basic 3D Studio .ASC import\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Added "Save JKL, GOB and Test" function - use at your own risk\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Added Frame Mode\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Added 3DO import. Notice that doesn't make JED a complete 3DO editor. People asked for it, so here it is. It's only useful only if you know what you're doing.\fs0 
\par \pard\li715\fi-355 \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Added rectangular multiselection (hold down Alt and draw a rectangle)\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Added "Send 3D Preview to item" tool - sends 3D preview camera to item location. Doesn't work in Surface, \ul Edge\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  and \ul Vertex\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  modes, but does work in sector mode. Also, in 3D Preview you can send main view to camera position by using "Commands"|"Set View to Camera".\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Added Copy/Paste\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Added clean unexpected error reporting to facilitate bug reports and allow to pinpoint the place where the error occured.\fs0 
\par \pard\li715\fi-355 \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Added "Swap Grid Axis" function\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Added two buttons to rotate the 3DO preview in Resource Picker\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Added "Texture flipped" surface flag. For flag to take effect you will need to straighten the texture on this surface.\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Added basic Template Creator\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Added an option to fall back to old map rotation controls.\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Added a bunch of OLE interface functions\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \b Bugfixes/Improvements\plain\cf2\cb2 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Fixed bug with JED showing the orientation of things incorrectly in 3D preview and main window.\fs0 
\par \pard\li715\fi-355 \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Fixed bug with JED not adding placed cogs parameters to the resource lists in JKL\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Changed map controls yet again. Not it's final at last!\fs0 
\par \f2 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Changed JKL and JED saving so that precision errors and texture warping should not appear anymore or at least be less common.\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Elimintated dependence on OpenGL. Now you can run JED without OpenGL. However, JED can still take advantage of OpenGL if you have it.\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Layer visibility info is now saved in .JED file\fs0 
\par \pard\li715\fi-355 \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Improved sector and surface merging to handle sectors/surfaces having more than one common edge/surface, pairs of adjoined surfaces, etc.\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Improved surface and sector \ul cleave\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  to handle certain situation better.\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 JED now extracts JK and \ul MOTS\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  directories from registry when you first run it.\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Improved the speed of 3D preview loading a bit (didn't time it, but it feels like something in vicinity of 20%).\fs0 
\par \pard\li715\fi-355 \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 If you cleave a surface, the texturing now retained. Also found and fixed a bug that might be responsible for "wiggly" textures.\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Updated "Find XXX" tool to allow adding/subtracting found items to/from multiselection\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Fixed bug in refreshing COG parameters when you click "Refresh" in Placed Cogs window.\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Now you can also double-click on COG parameters in Placed COG editor to perform appropriate actions depending on parameter type. Here they are:\fs0 
\par \pard\li715\fi-355 \f2\fs20 \tab \plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20   sound, model, template, mat, \ul ai\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 , cog - invokes appropriate picker.\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \tab \plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20   thing, sector, surface - selects them in the editor\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Improved stitching to handle some more complicated cases.\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 The colormap of sectors created by "K" is now copied from a currently selected sector.\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Copied sectors now retain texture alignment.\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Fixed a bug in reading Cogstrings.Uni that gave "Access Violation" when invoking Episode Editor.\fs0 
\par \pard\li715\fi-355 \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 3DO Preview now shows highest quality models, not the lowest that are displayed in 3D Preview.\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Now you can do some basic editing operations (raising/lowering objects deleting thing, extruding surfaces, etc) from 3D preview.\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Fixed bug in importing .LEV, .3DO and .ASC. If you imported them in MOTS mode, the level was marked as JK level, but the editor functioned in MOTS mode.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \pard \f3\b\fs24\cf6 Version 0.51 beta\plain\cf2\cb2 
\par \pard\li715\fi-355 \b\fs20 Additions\plain\cf2\cb2 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Added warning for using multiple CMPs in the level in Resource Checker\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Added "Edit Cog" button to Placed COG editor\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Added an option to use OpenGL for 3D Preview (it works slower, but loads faster. Picking might works funny. You also can't change adjust gamma on the fly). Could be helpful in case Direct3D gives you troubles)\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Added "Revert to saved" option - reloads the level from file keeping your current editing settings\fs0 
\par \pard\li715\fi-355 \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Added "TX Scale" field in surface properties. Lets you stretch/shrink the texture on the surface. Keyboard support provided as well. You also change a step of it on "Texturing" tab in "Map Settings" window.\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Added alternative keys for "move perpendicular to the grid". For people with non-US keyboards.\fs0 
\par \b\fs20 
\par Bugfixes/Improvements\plain\cf2\cb2 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Fixed bug in outputting CMP list to JKL\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Fixed bug that caused a bug in creating COGSTRINGS.UNI that caused JK/MOTS to crash when picking a level on "Host game" screen.\fs0 
\par \pard\li715\fi-355 \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Changed MAT handling a bit (to account for problem with 01narsky.mat)\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 EWEB now works in the level.\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 "N" and "P" in 3D Preview now cycle through player starts\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Fixed a bug giving "Range check error" if you set "Extra light" on surface or sector in a way so that the vertex instensity becomes negative.\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Fixed bug in saving ceiling and horizon sky offsets to .JED files\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Fixed several errors in MOTS templates and added custom template lists for JK and MOTS\fs0 
\par \pard\li715\fi-355 \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Modified adjoining operations a bit so that now the surfaces that overlap, but have different number of surfaces are treated as overlapping (it affects adjoining, unadjoining, cleaving adjoined surfaces/sectors, merging sectors and consistency checker).\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Changing CMP in the list in Resource Picker now changes the palette for a MAT, as it was in Jed 0.3. If you select a CMP different than Level's "Master" CMP, the floating hint will say that.\fs0 
\par \pard \fs20 
\par \f3\b\fs24\cf6 Version 0.5 beta\plain\cf2\cb2 
\par \pard\li715\fi-355 \b\fs20 Additions\plain\cf2\cb2 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Added recent documents menu\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Added color configuration in Options\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Added alternative texturing and stitching keys - for people with international keyboards\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Item Editor and Toolbar can now be minimized (double-click on caption)\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Added collide box calculation (should speed up MP levels)\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Added "Grid to View" option.\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Added "Magnify at cursor" function - Shift+C\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Added Copy Sector function ( INS - instead of create cube)\fs0 
\par \pard\li715\fi-355 \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Added custom list capability to ResPicker\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Added "Find" tool for sectors, surfaces and things (Ctrl+F, Ctrl+G)\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Added "Used in cogs" list box in Item Editor window\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Added an option to show only visble layers in 3D preview (to speed things up if you need it)\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Added thing wireframe view in editor window\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Added an option to show things in 3D preview\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Added 3DO preview in Resource Picker\fs0 
\par \pard\li715\fi-355 \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Added new "create \ul shape\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 " function. Press K, draw a line on the grid to define the size and orientation of the shape. Change current shape settings on "Shapes" tab in ToolBar window.\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Added a editor for JKL header\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Added basic \ul Dark Forces\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  import (geometry, lighting, objects).\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Added MOTS support\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Added "Export sector as 3DO" funtion\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Added resource checker to Consistency Checker\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Added "Make door" tool\fs0 
\par \pard\li715\fi-355 \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Added Episode editor\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Added "Reload templates" in "Commands" menu\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Added an option to calculate lighting only on visible layers\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Added light flags (not blocked flag)\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \b Bugfixes/Improvements\plain\cf2\cb2 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Fixed bug that caused "File not found" on invoking Options dialog or CD detection when JK directory was specified incorrectly\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 JED now loads and saves lights in JKLs in FB format\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 The floor flag is now automatically set on created surfaces if they have less than 45 degree slope\fs0 
\par \pard\li715\fi-355 \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Message Window now pops up on warnings\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 "Refresh" in COG editor now refreshes COG parameters\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 A backup copy is now created when saving (file with extension .~je)\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 If you changed the project and didn't save it, you're now asked to do it when you close JED or open a new project.\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Fixed bug in concave surface detection\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Changed CMP handling to match the way JK does it (so now if something looks wrong in JED, that means it will look wrong in JK as well).\fs0 
\par \pard\li715\fi-355 \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Fixed small bug in surface cleave that lead to non-overlapping adjoins\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Inserted things are now automatically placed at correct distance from the floor.\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Fixed bug in removing thing values.\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Fixed bug in Stitching when stitching flipped surfaces\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Modified Sector cleave to be more correct and stable.\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Fixed a bug that caused "Access Violation at" when picking in 3D Preview.\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 The things in cleaved sectors are now relayered (reassigned to sectors)\fs0 
\par \pard\li715\fi-355 \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Extude now adjusts new surfaces to remove small precision errors\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 The numbers in scientific notation don't appear in the editor anymore.\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 "Extrude" size is now relative to the source surface\fs0 
\par \pard \f3\fs24 
\par \b\cf6 Version 0.3 beta\plain\cf2\cb2 
\par \pard\li715\fi-355 \b\fs20 Additions:\plain\cf2\cb2 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Added textured 3D Preview\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Added floating hints in Flag Editor\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Added current X,Y,Z panel\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Added "Save As..." option.\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Added Named layers\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Added texture shifting, rotating\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Added texturing tools\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Added Stitching tools\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Added "Straighten texture" tool\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Added some optimizations to lighting calculation - should be faster now.\fs0 
\par \pard\li715\fi-355 \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Added project-local master template capability (create file master.tpl in your project directory and it's used instead of default one)\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Added Edge cleave\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Added detection of concave surfaces and sectors in Consistency Checker\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Added detection of invalid surfaces\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Added template descriptions in ResPicker\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Added translation perpendicular to the grid\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Added rotation and scaling tools\fs0 
\par \pard \f2\fs20 
\par \pard\li715\fi-355 \plain\b\fs20\cf2\cb2 Bugfixes/Improvements\plain\cf2\cb2 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Fixed clipped label in GOB dialog\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Fixed bug cause failure to enter directory inside GOB\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Fixed CD detection - should now work fine.\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Fixed cleave bug giving "uncleaveable" surfaces\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Fixed bug in reading COG variables\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Message pan split to message panel and messages window.\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Loading or create a new level now clears the messages\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Fixed edge selection. Improved edge selection display\fs0 
\par \pard\li715\fi-355 \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Fixed level display in 256 color modes.\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Fixed bug in respicker \fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Placed COG editor now shows parameter type\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Selected things now displays orientation and approximate size\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Changed main window movement controls slightly.\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 \'b7\plain\cf2\cb2 \tab \fs20 Improved grid\fs0 
\par \f2\fs20 
\par \pard \f3\b\fs24\cf6 Version 0.1 Beta\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  - first released version\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par 
\par \page
{\up +}
{\up $}
{\up #}
\pard\keepn\qc \b\fs48\cf1 Keyboard Summary\plain\cf2\cb2 
\par \pard\keepn\qc \f4\fs20 Use the alternative keys if you use non-US-keyboard setting. Also, the main keyboard commands may differ on different keyboard settings. Consult the JED Commands->Keyboard menu or a localized JED Help for local keyboard commands.\plain\cf2\cb2 
\par \pard\keepn\tx4315\tx6205 \fs20 
\par \b Function\tab Key\plain\b\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab Alternative\plain\cf2\cb2 
\par \pard\tx4315\tx6205 \fs20 
\par {\up #}
\b\fs28\cf6 Main JED window\plain\cf2\cb2 
\par \b\fs20 
\par Map Control\plain\cf2\cb2 
\par \b\fs20 
\par \plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 Top View\tab 1\fs0 
\par \fs20 Front View\tab 2\fs0 
\par \fs20 Left View\tab 3\fs0 
\par \fs20 Bottom View\tab 4\fs0 
\par \fs20 Back View\tab 5\fs0 
\par \fs20 Right View\tab 6\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par Top View & Set Grid\tab Shift+1\fs0 
\par \fs20 Front View & Set Grid\tab Shift+2\fs0 
\par \fs20 Left View & Set Grid\tab Shift+3\fs0 
\par \fs20 Bottom View & Set Grid\tab Shift+4\fs0 
\par \fs20 Back View & Set Grid\tab Shift+5\fs0 
\par \fs20 Right View & Set Grid\tab Shift+6\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par Move Left\tab Right arrow\fs0 
\par \fs20 Move Right\tab Left arrow\fs0 
\par \pard\tx4315\tx6205 \fs20 Move Up\tab Down arrow\fs0 
\par \fs20 Move Down\tab Up arrow\fs0 
\par \fs20 Move Forth\tab PgDn\fs0 
\par \fs20 Move Back\tab PgUp\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par Rotate Left\tab Shift+Right arrow\fs0 
\par \fs20 Rotate Right\tab Shift+Left arrow\fs0 
\par \fs20 Rotate Up\tab Shift+Down arrow\fs0 
\par \fs20 Rotate Down\tab Shift+Up arrow\fs0 
\par \fs20 Rotate Around\tab Shift+PgDn\fs0 
\par \fs20 Rotate Around\tab Shift+PgUp\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par Zoom at Cursor\tab Shift+C\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par 
\par \b Selection\plain\cf2\cb2 
\par \fs20 
\par Next Item\tab N\fs0 
\par \fs20 Previous Item\tab P\fs0 
\par \fs20 Next \ul edge\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  in \ul surface\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab Shift+N\fs0 
\par \fs20 Previous edge in surface\tab Shift+P\fs0 
\par \fs20 Select back side of \ul adjoin\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab Shift+F\fs0 
\par \fs20 Clear Multiselection\tab Backspace\fs0 
\par \fs20 Multiselect Item\tab Space\fs0 
\par \pard\tx4315\tx6205 \fs20 Rectangle Multiselection\tab Alt+Mouse\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \b Texturing\plain\cf2\cb2 
\par \fs20 
\par Scroll Up\tab Shift+,\fs0 
\par \fs20 Scroll Down\tab Shift+.\fs0 
\par \fs20 Scroll Left\tab ,\fs0 
\par \fs20 Scroll Right\tab .\fs0 
\par \fs20 Start \ul Stitch\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab ;\tab Ctrl+Ins\fs0 
\par \fs20 Stitch\tab '\tab Shift+Ins\fs0 
\par \fs20 Scale Texture Down\tab Alt+,\fs0 
\par \fs20 Scale Texture Up\tab Alt+.\fs0 
\par \fs20 Straighten Texture\tab /\tab Alt+Home\fs0 
\par \fs20 Straighten/Zero Texture\tab Ctrl+/\tab Ctrl+Home\fs0 
\par \fs20 Straighten/Zero/Rotate 90\'b0 Texture\tab Shift+Ctrl+/\tab Shift+Ctrl+Home\fs0 
\par \fs20 Rotate Texture Left\tab Ctrl+,\fs0 
\par \fs20 Rotate Texture Right\tab Ctrl+.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \b Recovery\plain\cf2\cb2 
\par \fs20 
\par Build Surface/Sector\tab Alt+B\fs0 
\par \fs20 Delete Surface\tab Alt+Del\fs0 
\par \fs20 Invert Surface\tab Alt+I\fs0 
\par \fs20 Planarize Surface\tab Ctrl+P\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \b Other\plain\cf2\cb2 
\par \fs20 
\par Move Item\tab Ctrl+Mouse\fs0 
\par \pard\tx4315\tx6205 \fs20 Start \ul Cleave\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab C\fs0 
\par \fs20 Cleave by Grid\tab Alt+C\fs0 
\par \fs20 Assign \ul Thing\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  To \ul Sector\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab Shift+A\fs0 
\par \fs20 Adjoin\tab A\fs0 
\par \fs20 Unadjoin\tab Alt+A\fs0 
\par \fs20 Join surfaces\tab J\fs0 
\par \fs20 Raise Item\tab [\tab Ctrl+Up arrow\fs0 
\par \fs20 Lower Item\tab ]\tab Ctrl+Down arrow\fs0 
\par \fs20 Bring Thing/Light to Surface\tab B\fs0 
\par \fs20 Cancel Cleave etc.\tab Esc\fs0 
\par \uldb \fs20 Item Editor\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab Enter\fs0 
\par \fs20 Sector Mode\tab S\fs0 
\par \fs20 Surface Mode\tab F\fs0 
\par \fs20 Edge Mode\tab E\fs0 
\par \ul \ul\fs20 Vertex\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  Mode\tab V\fs0 
\par \fs20 Thing Mode\tab T\fs0 
\par \ul \ul\fs20 Thing Frame\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  Mode\tab Shift+T\fs0 
\par \ul \ul\fs20 Light\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  Mode\tab L\fs0 
\par \pard\tx4315\tx6205 \fs20 Merge\tab M\fs0 
\par \fs20 Dublicate Item\tab Ins\fs0 
\par \fs20 Delete Item\tab Del\fs0 
\par \fs20 Create Sector\tab K\fs0 
\par \fs20 Extrude Surface\tab X\fs0 
\par \fs20 Extrude by...\tab Shift+X\fs0 
\par \fs20 Extrude&Expand\tab Ctrl+X\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par Snap Grid to Item\tab Shift+S\fs0 
\par \fs20 3D Preview to Item\tab F5\fs0 
\par \fs20 Snap View to Object\tab Alt+S\fs0 
\par \fs20 Move Grid\tab Hold G and drag the grid with the mouse\fs0 
\par \fs20 Rotate map\tab Hold R and rotate the mouse\fs0 
\par \fs20 Toggle Snap To X/Y\tab Ctrl+Alt+Z\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par Open\tab Ctrl+O\fs0 
\par \fs20 Save\tab Ctrl+S\fs0 
\par \fs20 Revert to saved\tab Ctrl+R\fs0 
\par \fs20 Save JKL & \ul Gob\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab F2\fs0 
\par \fs20 Exit\tab Alt+F4\tab \fs0 
\par \pard\tx4315\tx6205 \fs20 
\par Undo\tab Ctrl+Z\fs0 
\par \fs20 Copy selected item(s)\tab Ctrl+C\fs0 
\par \fs20 Paste\tab Ctrl+V\fs0 
\par \uldb \fs20 Find...\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab Ctrl+F\fs0 
\par \fs20 Find Next\tab Ctrl+G\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par Calculate Lighting\tab Ctrl+L\fs0 
\par \fs20 Calculate Lighting on visible layers\tab Ctrl+Shift+L\fs0 
\par \fs20 Calculate Lighting in selected sectors\tab Ctrl+Alt+L\fs0 
\par \uldb \fs20 Map Settings\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab F4\fs0 
\par \uldb \fs20 Level Header Editor\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab F6\fs0 
\par \uldb \fs20 Placed Cogs\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab F7\fs0 
\par \uldb \fs20 Episode Editor\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab F8\fs0 
\par \uldb \fs20 Tool Window\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab F9\fs0 
\par \uldb \fs20 Consistency Check\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab F10\fs0 
\par \fs20 Check Resources\tab Shift+F10\fs0 
\par \uldb \fs20 3D Preview\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab F12\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par 
\par {\up #}
\b\fs28\cf6 3D Preview window\plain\cf2\cb2 
\par \fs20 
\par \b Control\plain\cf2\cb2 
\par \fs20 
\par \pard\tx4315\tx6205 Rotate Right\tab Right arrow\fs0 
\par \fs20 Rotate Left\tab Left arrow\fs0 
\par \fs20 Move Forth\tab Up arrow\fs0 
\par \fs20 Move Back\tab Down arrow\fs0 
\par \fs20 Strafe Left\tab Alt+Left arrow\fs0 
\par \fs20 Strafe Right\tab Alt+Right arrow\fs0 
\par \fs20 Look Up\tab PgDn\fs0 
\par \fs20 Look Down\tab PgUp\fs0 
\par \fs20 Move Up\tab A\fs0 
\par \fs20 Move Down\tab Z\fs0 
\par \fs20 Select Surface/Thing\tab Click\fs0 
\par \fs20 Change Texture/Template\tab Double-Click\fs0 
\par \fs20 Snap Grid To Item\tab Shift+S\tab Shift+W\fs0 
\par \fs20 Swap Grid Axis\tab Shift+G\fs0 
\par \fs20 Sector Mode\tab S\fs0 
\par \fs20 Item Editor\tab Enter\fs0 
\par \fs20 Next Player Start\tab N\fs0 
\par \fs20 Previous Player Start\tab P\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \b Texturing\plain\cf2\cb2 
\par \pard\tx4315\tx6205 \fs20 
\par Scroll Up\tab Shift+,\tab Shift+Up arrow\fs0 
\par \fs20 Scroll Down\tab Shift+.\tab Shift+Down arrow\fs0 
\par \fs20 Scroll Left\tab ,\tab Shift+Left Arrow\fs0 
\par \fs20 Scroll Right\tab .\tab Shift+Right Arrow\fs0 
\par \fs20 Start Stitch\tab ;\tab Ctrl+Ins\fs0 
\par \fs20 Stitch\tab '\tab Shift+Ins\fs0 
\par \fs20 Scale Texture Down\tab Alt+,\fs0 
\par \fs20 Scale Texture Up\tab Alt+.\fs0 
\par \fs20 Straighten Texture\tab /\tab Alt+Home\fs0 
\par \fs20 Straighten/Zero Texture\tab Ctrl+/\tab Ctrl+Home\fs0 
\par \fs20 Straighten/Zero/Rotate 90\'b0 Texture\tab Shift+Ctrl+/\tab Shift+Ctrl+Home\fs0 
\par \fs20 Rotate Texture Left\tab Ctrl+,\tab Ctrl+Left\fs0 
\par \fs20 Rotate Texture Right\tab Ctrl+.\tab Ctrl+Right\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \b Editing\plain\cf2\cb2 
\par \fs20 
\par Delete Surface\tab Alt+Del\fs0 
\par \fs20 Invert Surface\tab Alt+I\fs0 
\par \fs20 Insert Thing at Surface\tab I\fs0 
\par \fs20 Planarize Surface\tab Ctrl+P\fs0 
\par \fs20 Assign Thing To Sector\tab Shift+A\fs0 
\par \fs20 Adjoin\tab Ctrl+A\fs0 
\par \pard\tx4315\tx6205 \fs20 Unadjoin\tab Alt+A\fs0 
\par \fs20 Raise Item\tab [\tab Ctrl+Up\fs0 
\par \fs20 Lower Item\tab ]\tab Ctrl+Down\fs0 
\par \fs20 Delete Item\tab Del\fs0 
\par \fs20 Extrude Surface\tab X\fs0 
\par \fs20 Copy Camera position as Frame\tab F\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par 
\par \pard 
\par \page
{\up +}
{\up $}
{\up #}
\pard\keepn\qc \b\fs48\cf1 Main Window\plain\cf2\cb2 
\par \pard \fs20 
\par JED's main window looks usually this way:\fs0 
\par \fs16 
\par Click onto the different spots on the picture to display them.\fs0 
\par \fs20 \{bmc bm2.shg\}\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par 
\par \page
{\up +}
{\up $}
{\up #}
\pard \b\fs24 Operating Mode\plain\cf2\cb2 
\par \fs20 
\par The caption of this panel is "JK" if you are editing a level for Jedi Knight, or "MOTS" if you are editing a level for \ul Mysteries Of The Sith\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 . By double-clicking you can switch the modes. When you start JED, it detects the CD in your drive and starts either in \ul JK\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  or \ul MOTS\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  mode.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par 
\par \page
{\up +}
{\up $}
{\up #}
\pard \b\fs24 Sector Mode\plain\cf2\cb2 
\par \fs20 
\par This is the button for the \ul Sector\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  Mode. When it's pressed, this mode is active and you can select/edit sectors. You can switch to Sector Mode by pressing "S".\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \page
{\up +}
{\up $}
{\up #}
\pard \b\fs24 Surface Mode\plain\cf2\cb2 
\par \fs20 
\par This is the button for the \ul Surface\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  Mode. When it's pressed, this mode is active and you can select/edit surface parameters. You can switch to Surface Mode by pressing "F".\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par 
\par \page
{\up +}
{\up $}
{\up #}
\pard \b\fs24 Vertex Mode\plain\cf2\cb2 
\par \fs20 
\par This is the button for the \ul Vertex\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  Mode. When it's pressed, this mode is active and you can select/edit vertices. You can switch to Vertex Mode by pressing "V".\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \page
{\up +}
{\up $}
{\up #}
\pard \b\fs24 Edge Mode\plain\cf2\cb2 
\par \fs20 
\par This is the button for the \ul Edge\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  Mode. When it's pressed, this mode is active and you can select/edit edges. You can switch to Edge Mode by pressing "E".\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \page
{\up +}
{\up $}
{\up #}
\pard \b\fs24 Thing Mode\plain\cf2\cb2 
\par \fs20 
\par This is the button for the \ul Thing\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  Mode. When it's pressed, this mode is active and you can select/edit things. You can switch to Thing Mode by pressing "T".\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \page
{\up +}
{\up $}
{\up #}
\pard \f4\b\fs24 Light Mode\plain\cf2\cb2 
\par \fs20 
\par This is the button for the \ul Light\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  Mode. When it's pressed, this mode is active and you can select/edit lights. You can switch to Light Mode by pressing "L".\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \page
{\up +}
{\up $}
{\up #}
\pard \b\fs24 Thing Frame Mode\plain\cf2\cb2 
\par \fs20 
\par This is the button for the \ul Thing Frame\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  mode. When it's pressed, this mode is active and you can select/edit \ul thing\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  frames. You can switch to Thing Frame Mode by pressing "Shift+T".\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \page
{\up +}
{\up $}
{\up #}
\pard \b\fs24 Working Area\plain\cf2\cb2 
\par \fs20 
\par This is the working area of JED. Here the map of the level is displayed as wireframe. You can navigate at this map using the keyboard. You edit the different aspects of your level by using appropriate map modes. The selecting of items is done by the mouse.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \page
{\up +}
{\up $}
{\up #}
\pard\keepn\qc \b\fs48\cf1 The Menus\plain\cf2\cb2 
\par \pard\keepn \fs20 Like every normal Windows program, JED has menus. Click onto the main menu item below to jump to its commands description.\fs0 
\par \pard \fs20 
\par \b\fs24 The Main Menu\plain\cf2\cb2 
\par \pard\box\brdrth\brdrdb \{bmc bm3.shg\}
\par \pard \fs20 
\par \b\fs24 The 3D Preview Menu\plain\cf2\cb2 
\par \pard\box\brdrth\brdrdb \{bml bm4.shg\}
\par \pard \fs20 
\par 
\par \page
{\up +}
{\up $}
{\up #}
\pard\keepn \b\fs48\cf1 Menu File\plain\cf2\cb2 
\par \pard\keepn \uldb \fs20 The Menus\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \fs0 
\par \pard \fs20 
\par \{bml bm5.bmp\}\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \pard\li2875\fi-2875\tx2875 \b New JK\plain\b\fs20\cf2\cb2  Project\tab \plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 Creates a new Jedi Knight project (requires one of your JK CDs in drive to work)\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \b New MOTS\plain\b\fs20\cf2\cb2  Project\tab \plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 Creates a new \ul Mysteries Of The Sith\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  project (requires your MotS CD in drive to work)\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \b Open...\tab \plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 Opens an existing .JED project or a Jedi Knight/MotS JKL level. Also allows opening from containers\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \b Import...\tab \plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 Imports an old \ul Dark Forces\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  level, an 3D Studio ASC file, or a JK \ul 3DO\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  object as level geometry.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \b Save...\tab \plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 Saves your level as a JED project; at first saving prompts for a filename. It is recommended to save projects into different directories\fs0 
\par \pard\li2875\fi-2875\tx2875 \fs20 
\par \b Save As...\tab \plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 Same as the Save command, but prompts for a new file name\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \b Revert to saved\tab \plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 Reloads your previous saving of the level in case you stuffed it up (what can easily happen)\fs0 
\par \b\fs20 
\par Make a Backup Copy\tab \plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 Makes a backup copy of your level in the subdirectory \'5cbackups of your project, with incremental numbers.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \b Export Sector\plain\b\fs20\cf2\cb2 (s) as 3DO...\tab \plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 Saves your multiselected geometry as a JK 3DO object. The zero point will be the midpoint of the currently active sector\fs0 
\par \pard\li2875\fi-2875\tx2875 \fs20 
\par \b Export Sector(s) as Shape\plain\b\fs20\cf2\cb2 ...\tab \plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 Saves your multiselected geometry as a JED shape/predef. Shapes are predefined sectors you can create by drawing with the \b K\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  \ul key\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 .\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \b Save JKL...\tab \plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 Saves your level as a Jedi Knight level file (JKL)\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \b Save JKL to...\tab \plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 Prompts for location for the JKL file to save.\fs0 
\par \b\fs20 
\par Gob\plain\b\fs20\cf2\cb2  Project\tab \plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 Compiles the project into a distributable \ul container\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  (GOB/GOO)\fs0 
\par \b\fs20 
\par Save JKL and GOB\tab \plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 Saves a JKL file and compiles your project\fs0 
\par \pard\li2875\fi-2875\tx2875 \fs20 
\par \b Save JKL and Test\tab \plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 Saves a JKL and runs Jedi Knight with the current level location. Speeds the testing up, because no Gobbing is required. What is required, is the JK directory tree.\fs0 
\par \pard\tx2875 \b\fs20 
\par Exit\tab \plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 Quits Jed\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \b (Recent file list)\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab the max. 4 files opened last.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \pard 
\par 
\par 
\par \page
{\up +}
{\up $}
{\up #}
\pard\keepn \b\fs48\cf1 Menu Edit\plain\cf2\cb2 
\par \pard\keepn \uldb \fs20 The Menus\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \fs0 
\par \pard \fs20 
\par \{bml bm6.bmp\}\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \pard\li2875\fi-2875 \b Undo\tab \plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 Undo the last editing operation. You can go up to 4 steps back. You can setup if Undo will be enabled in \uldb Options\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 .\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \b Copy\tab \plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 Copies (mulit-)selected items to clipboard. A comfortable way to exchange data between projects.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \b Paste\tab \plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 Pastes copied items from the clipboard\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \b Find...\tab \plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 Launches a \uldb Find Dialog\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  for the current mode.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \b Find Next\tab \plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 Finds the next item matching the defined query.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \pard 
\par \page
{\up +}
{\up $}
{\up #}
\pard\keepn \b\fs48\cf1 Menu View\plain\cf2\cb2 
\par \pard\keepn \uldb \fs20 The Menus\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \fs0 
\par \pard \fs20 
\par \{bml bm7.bmp\}\fs0 
\par \b\fs20 
\par \pard\li2875\fi-2875\tx2875 View Things As...\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab With this option you decide how to display things in the map. The choices are:\fs0 
\par \fs20 \tab \tab \b Dots\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  displays objects as dots.\fs0 
\par \fs20 \tab \tab \b Boxes\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  displays objects as boxes showing an item's size (default).\fs0 
\par \fs20 \tab \tab \b Wireframes\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  displays wireframe models of the actual objects. Slows down the map.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \b Multiselection Mode\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab Changes the current \ul Multiselection Mode\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 .\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \b Hide Things\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab Hides the \ul Thing\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  objects on the map.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \b Hide Lights\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab Hides the \ul Light\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  objects on the map.\fs0 
\par \pard\li2875\fi-2875\tx2875 \fs20 
\par 
\par \pard 
\par \page
{\up +}
{\up $}
{\up #}
\pard\keepn \b\fs48\cf1 Menu Commands\plain\cf2\cb2 
\par \pard\keepn \uldb \fs20 The Menus\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \fs0 
\par \pard \fs20 
\par \{bml bm8.bmp\}\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \pard\li2875\fi-2875\tx2875 \b Reload Templates\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab Reloads the templates for the level (if you manually tweaked around on the TPL file for example).\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \b Next Object\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab Switches to the next item in the current mode.\fs0 
\par \b\fs20 
\par Previous Object\tab \plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 Switches to the previous item in the current mode.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \b Snap Grid To Object\tab \plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 Sets the grid to the currently selected item. If it is a \ul thing\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 , \ul light\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  or \ul vertex\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 , the grid is centered on the object but no realignment is done. If it is a \ul surface\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 , the grid is centered on the first vertex, and realigned with the surface. If it is a \ul sector\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 , the grid is centered on the first vertex of the sector and aligned to its first surface.\fs0 
\par \pard\li2875\fi-2875\tx2875 \fs20 
\par \b Snap View to Object\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab Sets the view to the currently selected item.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \b View To Grid\tab \plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 Sets the map view perpendicularily to the current grid.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \b Grid To View\tab \plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 Sets the grid perpendicularily to the current map view.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \b 3D Preview To Item\tab \plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 If \uldb 3D Preview\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  is running in the background, moves the 3D preview camera to the position of the current sector/thing/light/frame.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \b Keyboard\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab \uldb Keyboard summary\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  for the map.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \pard 
\par \page
{\up +}
{\up $}
{\up #}
\pard\keepn \b\fs48\cf1 Menu Tools\plain\cf2\cb2 
\par \pard\keepn \uldb \fs20 The Menus\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \fs0 
\par \pard \fs20 
\par \{bml bm9.bmp\}\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \pard\li2875\fi-2875\tx2875 \b Calculate Lighting\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab Calculates the lighting in the whole level. Can take a while if a project is big. That's why there is a possibility...\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \b ...On Visible Layers\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab This one will only calculate lights on layers toggled as visible in the \uldb Map Settings\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  window\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \b ... In Selected Sectors\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab This one will calculate lights in selected sectors.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \b Consistency Check\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab \uldb Checks\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  the level for errors like bad sectors, false adjoins etc.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \b Check Resources\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab Checks if all the linked resources are actually there.\fs0 
\par \pard\li2875\fi-2875\tx2875 \fs20 
\par \b Tool Window\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab Shows the \uldb Tool Window\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \b Placed Cogs\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab Shows the \uldb Placed Cogs\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  Window\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \b Item Editor\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab Shows the \uldb Item editor\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  for the currently selected item. Also accessible by Enter while being on map.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \b Messages\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab Shows the window with last system messages\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \b Options\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab Shows the \uldb Options dialog\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  where you can set up preferences, colors, ... briefly options.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \b Map Settings\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab Shows the \uldb Map Settings\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  Window\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \b 3D Preview\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab Shows the \uldb 3D preview\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  window\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \b Level Header Editor\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab Shows the \uldb Level Header Editor\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \fs0 
\par \pard\li2875\fi-2875\tx2875 \fs20 
\par \b Episode Editor\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab Shows the \uldb Episode Editor\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \ul \b\ul Template\plain\b\fs20\cf2\cb2  Creator\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab Shows the \uldb Quick 'n Dirty\'99 Template Creator\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \pard 
\par \page
{\up +}
{\up $}
{\up #}
\pard \b Menu Plugins\plain\cf2\cb2 
\par \fs20 JED is able to use external OLE or DLL plugins placed in the \'5cplugins directory. The menu varies dependent on what plugins are installed. There is always the JED-own \ul plugin\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  "JK Tree".\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \page
{\up +}
{\up $}
{\up #}
\pard\keepn \b\fs48\cf1 Menu Help\plain\cf2\cb2 
\par \pard\keepn \uldb \fs20 The Menus\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \fs0 
\par \pard \fs20 
\par \{bml bm10.bmp\}\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \pard\li2875\fi-2875\tx2875 \b Topics\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab Starts this help file\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \b Jed Tutor\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab Starts the file JEDTUTOR.HLP if available.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \b About\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab Shows the about dialog box.\fs0 
\par \pard \fs20 
\par \page
{\up +}
{\up $}
{\up #}
\pard \b\fs24 Multiselection Mode\plain\cf2\cb2 
\par \fs20 This pane shows the currently active multiselection mode:\fs0 
\par \fs20  *   Toggle (by multiselecting an item you add it to or remove it from the multiselection, dependent on if it is already multiselected)\fs0 
\par \fs20  +   Add (by multiselecting an item you will only add it to the multiselection)\fs0 
\par \fs20  -   Subtract (by multiselecting an item you will subtract it from the multiselection)\fs0 
\par \fs20 You can also change the multiselection mode from the \uldb View menu\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 .\fs0 
\par \pard \fs20 
\par \page
{\up +}
{\up $}
{\up #}
\pard \b\fs24 Cursor Coordinates\plain\cf2\cb2 
\par \fs20 
\par This pane shows the coordinates of the mouse cursor relatively to the zero origin point in the XYZ format. The units used are \ul JKU\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 .\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \page
{\up +}
{\up $}
{\up #}
\pard\keepn \b\fs48\cf1 Commands Menu (3D Preview)\plain\cf2\cb2 
\par \pard\keepn \uldb \fs20 The Menus\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \fs0 
\par \pard \fs20 
\par \{bml bm11.bmp\}\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \pard\li2875\fi-2875\tx2875 \b Set View To Camera\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab Sets the main view to camera position.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \b Toggle Fully Lit\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab Toggles the fully lit option of 3D Preview (it can take a while to reload the geometry).\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \b Keyboard\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab \uldb Keyboard summary\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  for 3D Preview.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \pard 
\par \page
{\up +}
{\up $}
{\up #}
\pard \b\fs24 Preview Menu (3D Preview)\plain\cf2\cb2 
\par \fs20 
\par The Preview submenu contains only one item which is the Close command.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \page
{\up +}
{\up $}
{\up #}
\pard\keepn\qc \b\fs48\cf1 Options Dialog\plain\cf2\cb2 
\par \pard \fs20 
\par The Options Dialog is structured into 4 tabs: \b Jedi Knight\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 , \b 3D Preview\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 , \b Environment\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  and \b Misc.\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  \b Options\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 . Select the appropriate tab to get help to a certain tab:\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \{bmc bm12.shg\}\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par In the \b Jedi Knight \plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 dialog tab you can define the directory where your copy of Jedi Knight (and if available \ul MotS\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 ) is installed. This dialogue will pop up if you have no \ul JK\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  or MotS CD in drive, when launching JED. When running JED for the very first time, it tries to get the installation paths from the Windows registry.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par The left half of the dialog is the location of the Jedi Knight CD and directory. You need to specify a correct path for JED to work.\fs0 
\par \pard \fs20 
\par The right half of the dialog is the location of the MotS CD and directory. If you have no MotS, you won't need to specify it, just leave it as it is.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \page
{\up +}
{\up $}
{\up #}
\pard\keepn\qc \b\fs48\cf1 Options Dialog\plain\cf2\cb2 
\par \pard \fs20 
\par The Options Dialog is structured into 4 tabs: \b Jedi Knight\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 , \b 3D Preview\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 , \b Environment\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  and \b Misc.\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  \b Options\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 . Select the appropriate tab to get help to a certain tab:\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \{bmc bm13.shg\}\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par In the \b 3D Preview\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  tab you can define the options for the \uldb 3D Preview window\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 . You can also access this dialog from the 3D preview menu. Notice that if you OK the dialog, the 3D preview will be reloaded and this can take some time at larger levels...\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par The group \b Preview Using\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  offers three choices:\fs0 
\par \pard\li445 \b\fs20 Direct3D RM\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2   - Use Direct 3D Retained Mode.\fs0 
\par \b\fs20 OpenGL\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  - An alternative to D3D, if you have OpenGL installed, you can take advantage of it.\fs0 
\par \b\fs20 Direct3D IM\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  - Use Direct 3D Immediate Mode.\fs0 \line
\fs20 
\par \pard\box\brdrth\brdrdb \i\b\fs24\cf6 Direct3D Modes in JED:\plain\cf2\cb2 \line
\i\b\fs24\cf6 \line
\plain\b\fs20\cf2\cb2 RM\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  - uses Direct3D high level interface. Compatible with DirectX 3.0, but reported to have problems with DirectX 6.0. Retained for compatibility.\fs0 \line
\fs20 \line
\b IM\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  - uses Direct3D low level interface. Requires at least DirectX 5.0, works fine with DirectX 6.0.\fs0 
\par \pard \fs20 
\par 
\par \b Direct3D Device / Description\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  offers you a list of Direct3D devices you graphics card supports. Here you see 3 of the ones I have (may vary on your machine):\fs0 
\par \b\fs20 Ramp Emulation\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  - faster than other software emulations, but won't display any lighting effects. Also won't work with Direct3D IM.\fs0 
\par \b\fs20 RGB Emulation\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  - A software-emulated 3D device; supports shading but is very slow\fs0 
\par \b\fs20 Direct3D HAL\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  - A 3D device using hardware acceleration, thus the fastest of these.\fs0 
\par \pard \fs20 
\par On other machines (Alex's for example :-) ) there can be other devices, like\fs0 
\par \b\fs20 MMX Emulation\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  - basically the same as RGB emulation, but slightly faster.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par They are ordered in the order of quality. If you are using OpenGL, it doesn't matter which you choose.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \b Window Size\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  offers an array of different window sizes you want to see the preview in.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \b Gamma\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  is the gamma correction of the picture to make it brighter/darker. My tip is to use the same gamma you use in \ul JK\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 .\fs0 
\par \pard \fs20 
\par \b Stays On Top \plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 is an option if the 3D Preview window will stay on top when you switch to another windows.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \b Show only visible layers\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  speeds up the loading and enhances the visibility on larger levels.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \b Show Things \plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 specifies if the 3D Preview also shows Things. Check it if you want to align things correctly or just look how the level looks like. Uncheck it if you want to speed up the loading process when editing.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \b Fully Lit \plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 specifies if the 3D Preview uses gouraud shading or shows all faces fully lit. Check it if you want to texture some hard accessable corners which are too dark to see anything.\fs0 
\par \pard \fs20 
\par \b Enable Colored Lighting\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  specifies if 3D Preview of \ul MotS\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  will also show colored lighting. No effect in JK.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par 
\par \page
{\up +}
{\up $}
{\up #}
\pard\keepn\qc \b\fs48\cf1 Options Dialog\plain\cf2\cb2 
\par \pard \fs20 
\par The Options Dialog is structured into 4 tabs: \b Jedi Knight\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 , \b 3D Preview\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 , \b Environment\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  and \b Misc.\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  \b Options\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 . Select the appropriate tab to get help to a certain tab:\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \{bmc bm14.shg\}\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par The\b  Environment\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  tab is there to setup the display options for the wireframe Map.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par The \b Colors\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  group has an array of map elements to which you can assign different colors, if you want to. To do this, select an item and click on "\b Edit\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 ".\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par The \b Wireframe view using\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  group is there to specify what engine to use for the wireframe map. If you have \b OpenGL\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 , it's recommended to use it, for it is faster. If you haven't, you have to use \b Software\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  rendering. The "\b Double buffered\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 " checkbox will prevent the screen from blinking when the map is redrawn e.g. on scrolling.\fs0 
\par \pard \fs20 
\par In the \b Map Rotation \plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 group you can select the controls style to use. The "\b new style\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 " is the one used in JED >0.5, the "\b old style\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 " is the style before (0.1 and 0.3). They only differ slightly.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \b Autosave every ... minutes\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  enables the autosaving so that the level is regularly saved. Pretty self-explanatory. :-)\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \b Undo enabled\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  is also self-explanatory. There is no reason IMO to disable it, but if you want to... \fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par 
\par \page
{\up +}
{\up $}
{\up #}
\pard\keepn\qc \b\fs48\cf1 Options Dialog\plain\cf2\cb2 
\par \pard \fs20 
\par The Options Dialog is structured into 4 tabs: \b Jedi Knight\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 , \b 3D Preview\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 , \b Environment\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  and \b Misc.\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  \b Options\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 . Select the appropriate tab to get help to a certain tab:\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \{bmc bm15.shg\}\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par The Misc. Options tab is there to define some relatively minor but interesting options. It is probable that this group will grow with future releases.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \b Put new thing\plain\b\fs20\cf2\cb2  at the height/2 from grid\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  is an option to help to align things. It does not always work, e.g. when the thing origin point is not at the level of its height/2.\fs0 
\par \pard \fs20 
\par \b Move thing frames when thing moves\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  is an option to be able to move doors, elevators etc. easily, withoug editing the frames afterwards. You can deactivate it if you want only to move the original position of the thing or so.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \b Smart GOBbing\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  is an option to \ul gob\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  in only the resources which are used in the project. It can cause incomplete containers though, if you e.g. patch certain things by replacing them.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \b Check for overlapping sectors in Consistency Checker\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  is an option to check for sectors which overlap. If it is on, the Consistency Checker will take some longer, that's why it's recommended to use it only when necessary.\fs0 
\par \pard \fs20 
\par \b Use new method of lighting calculation\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  is a toggle between new and old lighting calculation techique. The new one is up to 4 times faster than the old one, but it can get results partially varying from the old way, that's why you can turn it off.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \b Confirm revert to saved\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  is an option if to add a confirmation dialog before reverting or not.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par 
\par 
\par \page
{\up +}
{\up $}
{\up #}
\pard\keepn\qc {\up K}
\b\fs48\cf1 3D Preview Window\plain\cf2\cb2 
\par \pard \fs20 
\par \{bmc bm16.bmp\}\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par The 3D Preview window is one of the most invaluable editing tools in JED. By this window, you can test how your level looks like without having to start Jedi Knight over and over just to check out some texturing changes. Besides, reasonable texturing and stitching is only possible in the 3D Preview.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par You navigate in the window like used in Jedi Knight: using \b arrow keys\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 . With \b PgUp\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  / \b PgDn\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  you can watch downwards and upwards; with \b A\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  and \b Z\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  you get higher or lower... see the \uldb keyboard summary\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  for the complete set of keys.\fs0 
\par \pard \fs20 
\par To select things or faces in 3D Preview, you just \b click\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  on them with the mouse. Pressing \b Enter\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  then will pop-up the \ul thing\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  or face's Item Editor, and \b double-clicking\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  will allow you to change the texture for the \ul surface\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  or the \ul template\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  for the thing.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par To \ul stitch\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  textures, you have to notice two \ul key\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  combinations: \b Ctrl+Ins\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  and \b Shift+Ins\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 . Ctrl+Ins will select a starting surface for stitching. By selecting a neighboring surface and pressing Shift+Ins, you will stitch the texture to this surface, so that the texturing is continuous.\fs0 
\par \pard \fs20 
\par You also can move textures manually on the surface. By pressing \b Shift+arrow keys\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 , you shall scroll the texture around. By \b Ctrl+left/right\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 , you shall rotate the texture. And by pressing \b Alt+,\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  or \b Alt+.\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  you can scale the texture up or down. The settings for these operations are specified in the Map Settings.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par A very useful feature for setting up ghost things or cameras is the function Copy Camera as Frame called by the \b F\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  key. This will copy the current 3D Preview camera setting (X/Y/Z;Pitch/Yaw/Roll) as a frame you can paste into a thing's properties afterwards.\fs0 
\par \pard \fs20 
\par \page
{\up +}
{\up $}
{\up #}
\pard\keepn\qc \b\fs48\cf1 Map Settings Window\plain\cf2\cb2 
\par \pard \fs20 
\par The Map Settings window has 4 tabs by which you can access the different options; as well as a common panel for the layers information. The Tabs are:\b  Grid, Texturing, Shapes \plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 and \b Other\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 .\fs0 
\par \fs20 Select the appropriate tab to get help on a certain tab:\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \{bmc bm17.shg\}\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \pard\li2875\fi-2875\tx2875 \b Snap to Grid\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab Snap to grid vertices/things etc. when moving, cleaving etc.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \b Snap every\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab A value in \ul JKU\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  in what regular squares to snap (how crude/fine the snapping is defined)\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \b Line every\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab A value in JKU for the grid look: how often a line is drawn\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \b Dot every\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab A value in JKU for the grid look: how often a dot is drawn\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par 
\par \i\b\fs24\cf6 Common options:\plain\cf2\cb2 
\par \fs20 
\par \b Layer/Visible list\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab This list shows all the layers defined in this JED file. The X to the right of it means that the \ul layer\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  is visible. Double-clicking onto a layername toggles its visiblilty.\fs0 
\par \pard\li2875\fi-2875\tx2875 \fs20 
\par \b Show\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab Mark layer(s) as showed\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \b Hide\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab Mark layer(s) as hidden\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \b Delete unused\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab If you defined a layer but not need it anymore (because no object uses it), you can click on this button to remove unused layers from the list.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par 
\par \b Stay On Top\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab If the map window will stay on top of other windows when deactivated\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \b Set as default\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab Sets all the current Map Settings as a default one loaded at the JED start.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par 
\par 
\par \pard 
\par \page
{\up +}
{\up $}
{\up #}
\pard\keepn\qc \b\fs48\cf1 Map Settings Window\plain\cf2\cb2 
\par \pard \fs20 
\par The Map Settings window has 4 tabs by which you can access the different options; as well as a common panel for the layers information. The Tabs are: Grid, Texturing, Shapes and Other.\fs0 
\par \fs20 Select the appropriate tab to get help on a certain tab:\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \{bmc bm18.shg\}\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \pard\li2875\fi-2875\tx2875 \b Shift Step\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab A step for shifting textures with \b Shift+arrow keys\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 .\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \b Rot. Step\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab A step in degrees for Rotation of textures with \b Ctrl+Left/Right\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  arrows\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \b Scale Step\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab A coefficient for scaling textures up/down with \b Alt+,\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 /\b .\plain\cf2\cb2 
\par \fs20 
\par 
\par \i\b\fs24\cf6 Common options:\plain\cf2\cb2 
\par \fs20 
\par \b Layer/Visible list\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab This list shows all the layers defined in this JED file. The X to the right of it means that the \ul layer\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  is visible. Double-clicking onto a layername toggles its visiblilty. You can also multiselect layers and show/hide multiple layers at once.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \b Show\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab Mark layer(s) as showed\fs0 
\par \pard\li2875\fi-2875\tx2875 \fs20 
\par \b Hide\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab Mark layer(s) as hidden\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \b Delete unused\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab If you defined a layer but not need it anymore (because no object uses it), you can click on this button to remove unused layers from the list.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par 
\par \b Stay On Top\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab If the map window will stay on top of other windows when deactivated\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \b Set as default\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab Sets all the current Map Settings as a default one loaded at the JED start.\fs0 
\par \pard \fs20 
\par 
\par 
\par \page
{\up +}
{\up $}
{\up #}
\pard\keepn\qc \b\fs48\cf1 Map Settings Window\plain\cf2\cb2 
\par \pard \fs20 
\par The Map Settings window has 4 tabs by which you can access the different options; as well as a common panel for the layers information. The Tabs are: Grid, Texturing, Shapes and Other.\fs0 
\par \fs20 Select the appropriate tab to get help on a certain tab:\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \{bmc bm19.shg\}\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \pard\li2875\fi-2875\tx2875 \b New Sector\plain\b\fs20\cf2\cb2  Shape\plain\b\fs20\cf2\cb2  Is\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab Here you can select one of the predefined sector shapes to draw with the \b K\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  \ul key\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 .\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \b Delete\tab \plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 Deletes the currently selected shape\fs0 
\par \pard \b\fs20 
\par \pard\li2875\fi-2875\tx2875 \plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 
\par \i\b\fs24\cf6 Common options:\plain\cf2\cb2 
\par \fs20 
\par \b Layer/Visible list\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab This list shows all the layers defined in this JED file. The X to the right of it means that the \ul layer\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  is visible. Double-clicking onto a layername toggles its visiblilty.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \b Show\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab Mark layer(s) as showed\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \b Hide\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab Mark layer(s) as hidden\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \b Delete unused\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab If you defined a layer but not need it anymore (because no object uses it), you can click on this button to remove unused layers from the list.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par 
\par \b Stay On Top\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab If the map window will stay on top of other windows when deactivated\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \b Set as default\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab Sets all the current Map Settings as a default one loaded at the JED start\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par 
\par \pard 
\par \page
{\up +}
{\up $}
{\up #}
\pard\keepn\qc \b\fs48\cf1 Map Settings Window\plain\cf2\cb2 
\par \pard \fs20 
\par The Map Settings window has 4 tabs by which you can access the different options; as well as a common panel for the layers information. The Tabs are: Grid, Texturing, Shapes and Other.\fs0 
\par \fs20 Select the appropriate tab to get help on a certain tab:\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \{bmc bm20.shg\}\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \pard\li2875\fi-2875\tx2875 \b [] Step\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab Here you define the step for moving perpendicularily to Grid (\b []\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  or \b Ctrl+Up/Down\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 )\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \b 3D Preview Step\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab Here you define the step for navigating in the \uldb 3D preview\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  in \ul JKU\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 .\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \b Grid Size\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab Defines the size of your grid displayed in JKU. Be careful for larger values take larger time to draw!\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \b Grid Move Step\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab Defines the step for moving grid while holding down the \b G\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  \ul key\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 .\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par 
\par \i\b\fs24\cf6 Common options:\plain\cf2\cb2 
\par \fs20 
\par \pard\li2875\fi-2875\tx2875 \b Layer/Visible list\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab This list shows all the layers defined in this JED file. The X to the right of it means that the \ul layer\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  is visible. Double-clicking onto a layername toggles its visiblilty.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \b Show\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab Mark layer(s) as showed\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \b Hide\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab Mark layer(s) as hidden\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \b Delete unused\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab If you defined a layer but not need it anymore (because no object uses it), you can click on this button to remove unused layers from the list.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par 
\par \b Stay On Top\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab If the map window will stay on top of other windows when deactivated\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \b Set as default\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab Sets all the current Map Settings as a default one loaded at the JED start\fs0 
\par \pard \fs20 
\par 
\par 
\par \page
{\up +}
{\up $}
{\up #}
\pard\keepn\qc \b\fs48\cf1 Tool Window\plain\cf2\cb2 
\par \pard \fs20 
\par The \b F9\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  \ul key\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  shall display the Tool Window. This window contains the built-in JED tools. This dialog consists of three tabs.\fs0 
\par \fs20 \{bmc bm21.shg\}\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par The \b Transformations tab\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  contains simple deforming operators:\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \pard\li2875\fi-2875\tx2875 \b Rotate/Flip/Scale around\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab specifies the axis to rotate/flip around. The \b X axis\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  shows (normally) from East to West, the \b Y axis\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  from South to North, and the \b Z axis\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  is showing out of your PC screen. The objects you selected will be rotated/flipped around the object center and the specified axis. If you specify to rotate/flip around \b the Grid\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 , then rotation will be done at the axis perpendicular to the current grid setting around the grid center, and the flipping will be done over the grid's plane around the grid. The Scaling is performed on the selected axis, unless the \b Ignore axis setting, scale on all \plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 option is checked.\fs0 
\par \pard \fs20 
\par \pard\li2875\fi-2875\tx2875 \i\b\cf6 Rotation/Flipping operations\plain\cf2\cb2 
\par \fs20 
\par \b Prep\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab The way it works is you select two surfaces (multiselect one and select another) and press this button. JED calculates the rotation parameters for a rotation that would place these two surfaces in one plane. After this preparation you only need to select the \ul sector\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 (s) to rotate and press "\b Rotate\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 ".\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \b Angle\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab The angle to rotate the selected sector. The rotation is performed around the centerpoint of the currently selected object.\fs0 
\par \pard\li2875\fi-2875\tx2875 \fs20 
\par \b Rotate\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab Performs the rotation operation on the selected axis/grid.
\par \b Flip\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab Performs the flipping operation on the selected axis/grid.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \i\b\cf6 Scaling operations\plain\cf2\cb2 
\par \fs20 
\par \b Scale Factor\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab specifies the factor to scale with. If 1, the result will be identical. To scale down, use values <1, to scale up, use values >1.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \b Scale Textures\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab is an option if you do not want to lose your nice texture alignment of the sector (e.g. if you are designing a \ul 3DO\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 ).\fs0 
\par \pard\li2875\fi-2875\tx2875 \fs20 
\par \b Ignore axis setting, scale on all   \plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 is an option to scale the selected objects on all axis and not on the specified only. Checked by default.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \b Scale\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab Scales the selected sector.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \i\b\cf6 Translation operations\plain\cf2\cb2 
\par \fs20 
\par \b Delta X/Delta Y/Delta Z\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab Specifies the distances in \ul JKU\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  for each axis to move the object(s) by.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \b Translate\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab Moves the selected objects by the specified deltas.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par 
\par \pard 
\par \page
{\up +}
{\up $}
{\up #}
\pard\keepn\qc \b\fs48\cf1 Tool Window\plain\cf2\cb2 
\par \pard \fs20 
\par The \b F9\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  \ul key\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  shall display the Tool Window. This window contains the built-in JED tools. This dialog consists of three tabs.\fs0 
\par \fs20 \{bmc bm22.shg\}\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par The \b Misc. tab\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  contains miscellaneous tools:\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \pard\li2875\fi-2875\tx2875 \b Make door\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab creates a simple functioning door out of the selected object. It does the following: Create 2 frames (with Frame 0 at the \ul thing\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  position and Frame 1 moved up by the thing height); add door0.cog to your Used Cogs list with this thing as the parameter.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \b Straighten all textures\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab will straighten (remove wrong layering and warping) all the textures and texture them linearly. A nice feature if your texturing stuffed up.\fs0 
\par \pard \b\fs20 
\par 
\par \page
{\up +}
{\up $}
{\up #}
\pard\keepn\qc \fs48\cf1 Tool Window\plain\cf2\cb2 
\par \pard \fs20 
\par The \b F9\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  \ul key\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  shall display the Tool Window. This window contains the built-in JED tools. This dialog consists of three tabs.\fs0 
\par \fs20 \{bmc bm23.shg\}\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par The \b Grid/Camera tab\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  contains operations to setup the grid/camera positions exactly:\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \pard\li2875\fi-2875\tx2875 \b Grid X,Y,Z\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab sets the grid's center point to the (world) coordinates in \ul JKU\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 .\fs0 
\par \b\fs20 ... PCH,YAW,ROL\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab sets the Grid's Pitch, Yaw and Roll values.\fs0 
\par \b\fs20 
\par Set Grid\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab Applies the specified Grid values to the Grid.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par 
\par \b Camera X,Y,Z\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab sets the map's camera to the specified world coordinates in JKU.\fs0 
\par \b\fs20 ... PCH,YAW,ROL\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab sets the map camera's Pitch,Yaw & Roll values.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \b Set Camera\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab Applies the specified Camera values to the map camera.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par 
\par \b Preview X,Y,Z\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab sets the (world) coordinates of the \uldb 3D Preview\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  camera in JKU.\fs0 
\par \pard\li2875\fi-2875\tx2875 \b\fs20 ...PCH,YAW\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab sets the Pitch & Yaw values of the \uldb 3D Preview\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  camera.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \b Set Preview Camera\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab Applies the specified values to the \uldb 3D Preview\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  camera.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par \pard \b 
\par \plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 
\par 
\par \page
{\up +}
{\up $}
{\up #}
\pard\keepn\qc \b\fs48\cf1 Level Header Editor\plain\cf2\cb2 
\par \pard \fs20 
\par The level header editor specifies the general settings for your level. Not all values are actually known yet.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \{bmc bm24.bmp\}\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par You can specify the following settings:\fs0 
\par \b\fs20 
\par \pard\li2875\fi-2875\tx2875 Gravity\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab The gravity of the level. The default value is 4.0. If your lower the value, you will jump higher, if your raise it, you will jump lower.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \b Ceiling Sky Height\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab The height of the sky when you assign a Sky2 flag to a \ul surface\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 . Default ist 15 \ul JKU\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 . The Offsets determine the texture offset.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \b Horizon Sky Distance\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab The radius of the sphere of the Sky1-Type. If you increase it, the sky texture will appear smaller. Default is 100. Parallax is usually 768, presumably determining the "wrapping" of the texture. Offsets specify the texture offset.\fs0 
\par \pard\li2875\fi-2875\tx2875 \fs20 
\par \b MipMap Distances\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab Jedi Knight handles textures with up to 4 detail levels called MipMaps. You can specify at which distance from the player the engine changes the respective texture detail level. Usual values are respectively 1,2,3,4 JKU.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \ul \b\ul 3DO\plain\b\fs20\cf2\cb2  LOD Distances\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab Jedi Knight 3DOs can have up to 4 detail levels called LODs. The respective distance values specify when to change the LOD of a 3DO.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \b Gouraud distance\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab presumably the distance where to turn Gouraud shading on/off.\fs0 
\par \pard\li2875\fi-2875\tx2875 \fs20 
\par \b Perspective distance\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab is the distance where the engine switches from the perspective texturing to affine texturing.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \b Master CMP\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab is the Master colormap to be used in your level.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \b Pixel per Unit\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab default is 320.\fs0 
\par \pard \fs20 
\par 
\par \page
{\up +}
{\up $}
{\up #}
\pard\keepn\qc \b\fs48\cf1 Quick&Dirty\'99 Template Creator\plain\cf2\cb2 
\par \pard \fs20 
\par With the \ul Template\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  Creator you can create your own templates by creating them completely new or deriving from existing ones. A useful tool if you want to make a door looking or sounding another way or so...\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \{bmc bm25.bmp\}\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par The fields of this dialog are explained below:\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \pard\li2875\fi-2875\tx2875 \b Template\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab The name of your template-to-be. By pressing the "..." button to the right, you can choose an existing template so you can just alter some letters or add another number. Required.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \b Parent\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab The name of the template yours is based on. Templates inherit the properties of their parents, except some of these properties are changed. You have to press the "..." button to the right to select the parent template. Required; none by default.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \b Description\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab The description of your template which will appear in the Resource Picker. Optional.\fs0 
\par \pard\li2875\fi-2875\tx2875 \fs20 
\par \b Bounding Box\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab The bounding box of your template when showing it as Box in the map. When you select a \ul 3DO\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  it will be filled automatically. Optional\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \b 3DO\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab By hitting this button you can specify a 3DO for your template. You can select an already given 3DO or a custom 3DO.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \ul \b\ul AI\plain\b\fs20\cf2\cb2 \plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab By hitting this button, you can select a different Artificial Intelligence file for your template.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \b SND\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab By hitting this button, you select a sound class for your template.\fs0 
\par \pard\li2875\fi-2875\tx2875 \fs20 
\par \ul \b\ul PUP\plain\b\fs20\cf2\cb2 \plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab This button specifies a Puppet definition file for your template.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \ul \b\ul COG\plain\b\fs20\cf2\cb2 \plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab This button will specify a different behaviour COG for your template.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \i\b <the big list box>\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab is displaying the entries your template will possess. They are updated when your click onto different selection buttons mentioned above.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \i\b ">>" button\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab clears the listbox.\fs0 
\par \pard \fs20 
\par 
\par 
\par \page
{\up +}
{\up $}
{\up #}
\pard\keepn\qc {\up K}
\b\fs48\cf1 Consistency Checker\plain\cf2\cb2 
\par \pard \fs20 
\par The Consistency Checker is a tool to check your level for validity for Jedi Knight. It detects most geometrical errors like concave sectors or surfaces, misplaced things or wrong \ul COG\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  parameters. It is recommended to check your project regularly for errors.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \{bmc bm26.bmp\}\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par You activate the Consistency Checker with F10. When it pops up, it will show the errors your level has. First, there comes a description of the error (like above, you can see "Thing not in \ul sector\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 "). Then there comes the concrete object which causes the error. If you double-click onto an entry, its object of error will be selected on the map and you can correct it.\fs0 
\par \pard \fs20 
\par Further there are some buttons on the bottom side:\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \pard\li2875\fi-2875\tx2875 \b Go to\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab is the same action as the double-click. The currently selected wrong object will be selected.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \b Close\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab closes the Consistency Checker window.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \b Recheck\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab makes a new consistency check.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \b Check Resources\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab (Shift+F10). Checks for missing resources like textures or sounds.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \b ?\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab Jed Help (this page)\fs0 
\par \pard \fs20 
\par 
\par \page
{\up +}
{\up $}
{\up #}
\pard\keepn\qc \b\fs48\cf1 Find Dialog\plain\cf2\cb2 
\par \pard \fs20 
\par In JED, you are able to search for items (these are: sectors, faces and things) by defining the search criteria more or less close. Here the Find \ul Sector\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  dialog:\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \{bmc bm27.bmp\}\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par The criteria differ in the different modes and are derived from the Item Editor settings.\fs0 
\par \fs20 The selection of the criteria is pretty simple. Each criterion has a combo box which contains the hit operators and an edit field which contains the data to which these operators relate. So, for example, the operator "Is not" 0 in the Flags criterion (see picture) means, that JED will find every sector in the level which Flags field is not equal 0. \fs0 
\par \pard \fs20 The operators may vary depending on the related field type. There are following operators:\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \pard\li2605\fi-1885\tx2605 \b Is\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab all items with the property set to the specified value will be found\fs0 
\par \b\fs20 Is not\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab all items with the property not set to the specified value will be found\fs0 
\par \b\fs20 <\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab all items with the property (e.g. number) bigger than the specified value will be found\fs0 
\par \b\fs20 >\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab all items with the property (e.g. number) smaller than the specified value will be found\fs0 
\par \b\fs20 Set\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab \i (for flags)\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  all items with the property having the specified value bit(s) set, will be found\fs0 
\par \b\fs20 Not set\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab \i (for flags)\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  all items with the property having the specified value bit(s) not set, will be found\fs0 
\par \b\fs20 =\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab same as \b Is\plain\cf2\cb2 
\par \b\fs20 <>\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab same as \b Is not\plain\cf2\cb2 
\par \pard\li2605\fi-1885\tx2605 \b\fs20 Contains\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab all items with the property containing the specified value as a part will be found\fs0 
\par \b\fs20 Doesn't contain\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab all items with the property not containing the specified value as a part will be found\fs0 
\par \pard\li715\tx2605 \b\fs20 ' '\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab an empty field deactivates this search criterion\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \pard\tx2605 Some of the criteria have a selection "..." button which enables to select the value from the list. For example, the Flags, or the resource criteria like textures, sounds or colormaps.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par The Query Results field specifies the action performed after the search. The options are:\fs0 
\par \pard \fs20 
\par \pard\li715 \b Added to multiselection\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  will multiselect all the items with all the matching parameters. Useful if you e.g. want to replace one certain texture everywhere in the level or remove one certain flag.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \b Subtracted from mutiselection\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  will subtract the matching items from an existing multiselection. This one is useful if you e.g. want to change parameters of all sectors in the level except the underwater ones.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \b Focused in the editor\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  will select the first found item. You can select the next by selecting "Find Again" from the \uldb Edit Menu\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 .\fs0 
\par \pard\li715 \fs20 
\par \pard\tx2605 
\par \pard 
\par \page
{\up +}
{\up $}
{\up #}
\pard\keepn\qc \b\fs48\cf1 Episode Editor\plain\cf2\cb2 
\par \pard \fs20 
\par JED offers a simple Episode Editor using which you are able to define some elementary stuff for your level to load: to play a cutscene; or to jump to another level; give Force Powers on finish or define the text appearing on load...\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \pard\box\brdrth\brdrdb \cf3 Attention: The Episode Editor is mostly Jedi Knight-oriented. Most features will also work with \ul MotS\plain\fs20\cf3\cb2 , but e.g. the initial weapons preselection does not work correctly.\fs0\cf2 
\par \pard \fs20 
\par \{bmc bm28.bmp\}\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par Here comes the explanation of the components.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \pard\li2875\fi-2875\tx2875 \b Episode Type\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab Here you can select of what type your episode is. Possible are: 1 (Single Player Mission), 2 (Deathmatch Multiplayer (MP) Level), 8 (Special/Capture the Flag - MP) level and 16 (Saber Deathmatch (MP).\fs0 
\par \b\fs20 Episode Name\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab Here comes the string which will appear in the level selection box (when you begin a SP "New Episode" or select a MP game)\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \b Sequence list\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab lists the sequence of the levels in the current episode.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par The controls below the Sequence list will edit the level aspects\fs0 
\par \pard\li2875\fi-2875\tx2875 \fs20 
\par \b Line #\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab The line number of a level in this sequence. Line numbers are used to create e.g. jumps.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \b CD #\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  \tab 1 is for CD1, 2 for CD2, 0 is supposed to accept both CDs. However, it seems that at SP missions you always have to insert the CD 1 first.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \b Level # \plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab JED automatically increases this number; however it doesn't matter.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \b Type\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab LEVEL means this sequence line is a level. CUT means it is a cutscene. And DECIDE means you have to decide on this place if you are on \ul Light\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  or Dark side (like in \ul JK\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  before the Falling Ship level).\fs0 
\par \pard\li2875\fi-2875\tx2875 \b\fs20 
\par Give Force Powers Light/Dark\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab After completion of the level, give the following Light and Dark Force powers.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \b Goto A/B\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab After completing the level, goto next level. As you can end the level successfully (A) or unsuccessfully (B), you can define if the player goes on or replays the level... or plays a different level... the values are the line numbers of the levels/cutscenes to jump to.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \b Update\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab Assigns the parameter changes to the current sequence line\fs0 
\par \pard\li2875\fi-2875\tx2875 \fs20 
\par \b Add\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab Create a new sequence line with these parameters\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \b Delete\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab Deletes the current sequence line.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par 
\par \b Filename\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab enables you to select the filename of the JK level (JKL) or the Smacker cutscene (SMK) for the currently selected line.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \b Level name\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab shows the Level name as appearing in the Loading screen and Load/Save dialogs.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \b Text when level loads\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab the text which appears in the loading screen ("briefing"). To make the text line appear in a bigger bolder font, set a "^" before this line (like in the "Objectives" line)\fs0 
\par \pard\li2875\fi-2875\tx2875 \b\fs20 
\par Edit Strings\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab launches the Cogstrings.uni Editor. (see below, the "\b Edit Strings\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 " dialog)\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \b Create StartUp COG\plain\b\fs20\cf2\cb2 \plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab launches the startup COG generator. (see below, the "\b Cog Generator\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 " dialog)\fs0 
\par \pard \fs20 
\par 
\par \b\fs36\cf6 Edit Strings Dialog\plain\cf2\cb2 
\par \fs20 
\par \{bmc bm29.bmp\}\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par The String editor enables you to edit COGSTRINGS.UNI on a more or less high level. In the top listbox, you see all the strings in the following format: \i KEY:string\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 . By selecting a string, you will be able to add a \ul key\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  by changing the key name in the "\b Key\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 " editbox and the string itself in the "\b String\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 " editbox. By clicking on the button "\b Add/Update\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 " a key will be either created new or altered by the new string. The "\b Delete\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 " button will delete the selected strings.\fs0 
\par \pard \fs20 
\par 
\par \b\fs36\cf6 Cog Generator Dialog\plain\cf2\cb2 
\par \fs20 
\par \{bmc bm30.bmp\}\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par The COG generator will create a Master Startup cog which is able to initiate some startup settings, like the weapons/Force rank available, or defining crude Mission goals.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par The \b Give weapons\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  checkbox list will enable or disable certain weapons at the startup. \i Notice that this only will work with Jedi Knight, for weapons in MotS have other sockets in the inventory list\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 .\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par In the \b Ranking\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  combo, you can select your Force rank setting (the mass of Force power and how fast it regenerates).\fs0 
\par \pard \fs20 
\par The \b Goals\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  list enables you to create Goals which will appear in the objectives screen. However no goals completion routines are implemented.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par 
\par 
\par \page
{\up +}
{\up $}
{\up #}
\pard\keepn\qc \b\fs48\cf1 Resource Picker\plain\cf2\cb2 
\par \pard \fs20 
\par JED allows selection of the resources like textures, sounds etc. by a mighty tool called Resource Picker. Here you see the Picker in the texture selection mode.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \{bmc bm31.bmp\}\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par The Resource Picker works pretty easy. It can be called up, if you have to select a Jedi Knight/MotS pre-defined or your own resources. For example, with the texture Picker, you can select the textures of JK/MotS from the internal subdirs \'5cMAT and \'5c3DO\'5cMAT; further you can select textures from your project directory; and yet further you can select textures from your project's subdirectories \'5cMAT and \'5c3DO\'5cMAT.\fs0 
\par \pard \fs20 You can select almost any kind of resources \ul JK\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  handles: Textures (MAT), Sounds (WAV), Colormaps (CMP), \ul COG\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  files (COG), \ul Thing\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  templates, 3D Objects (3DO), Artificial Intelligence files (AI), Soundclasses (SND), Puppet definitions (PUP)... The selection is basically the same though, only the view pane differs.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par The layout of the Resource Picker:\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par The \b upper left pane\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  is the directory structure from which you can select the resources. For example, \ul WAV\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  sounds can be selected from up to 7 directories.\fs0 
\par \pard \fs20 
\par The \b text right below this pane\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  has a different function dependent on the mode. In Texture mode, it displays the height/width of a texture. In Thing \ul Template\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  mode, it shows the description of the template. \fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par The field below is the \b Preview pane\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 , it mostly displays a resource. In the texture mode, it shows the texture (see picture above). In the \ul 3DO\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  mode, it is a 3DO viewer. In text resource mode (COG, \ul AI\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 , SND, \ul PUP\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 ) it shows the contents of the text file selected. And in Colormap/Sound mode, it's not there at all.\fs0 
\par \pard \fs20 
\par Under this field, there is a \b Colormap combo box \plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 where you can select the Colormap to display the resource with. It appears only in graphical resources selection like Textures, 3DOs and Templates. Usually the level master CMP is set in this field.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par The \b really big list at the right upper corner\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  shows the available resources from this directory. It is sorted alphabetically. Here you can actually select the wished resource. The reaction is different on different types: most resources will be previewed in the Preview Pane; some won't. Sounds will be played on selection.\fs0 
\par \pard \fs20 
\par The \b "Mask" field \plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 under the selection list helps to create a filter to show only certain textures in the selection list. So, if you want e.g. to select only from textures whose names contain "red", you can specify the filter "*red". The wildcards (?, *) are supported.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par The\b  field right below\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  shows the filename of the currently selected resource.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par The button "\b OK\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 " will close this dialog and confirm the changes.\fs0 
\par \fs20 The button "\b Cancel\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 " will cancel the dialog.\fs0 
\par \pard \fs20 
\par 
\par \page
{\up +}
{\up $}
{\up #}
\pard\keepn\qc \b\fs48\cf1 Placed COGs\plain\cf2\cb2 
\par \pard \fs20 
\par In \ul JK\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 , the level "action" is made by a special programming language similar to C, called \ul COG\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 . The COG files are kinda small routines which are limited to a certain task. In JED, COG selection is realised by a tool called "Placed Cogs" Window.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \{bmc bm32.bmp\}\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par The main element of this window is the \b COGs list\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  to the left. There you can select a certain Cog.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par The right pane is the \b Parameter editor\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 . All the available parameters are shown in the list. Some are numbers; some are texts (filenames).\fs0 
\par \pard \fs20 Double-clicking on a parameter depends on the parameter type. If it is a geometry element which is already specified, this element will be focused on the map. If it is a resource (a texture, a \ul template\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  etc.), the \uldb Resource Picker\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  will be started so you can select a resource.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par Underneath there also some buttons:\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \pard\li2875\fi-2875\tx2875 \b Add Cog...\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab Launches the \uldb Resource Picker\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  allowing you to select a COG file to add.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \b Delete Cog\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab Deletes the selected Cog from the list.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \b Duplicate\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab Duplicates the currently selected COG for repeated usage.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \b Refresh\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab Refreshes the Cog list, also assigns the specified parameters of the active COG.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \b Edit Cog\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab Launches the program currently associated with the .cog extension.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \b Stay on Top\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab Makes the Placed COGs window stay on top, no matter if it is active.\fs0 
\par \pard\li2875\fi-2875\tx2875 \b\fs20 
\par Get selected item\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab Will insert the value (number) of the currently selected item on the map into the currently active parameter field. Only works at matching types!\fs0 
\par \pard \fs20 
\par 
\par \page
{\up +}
{\up $}
{\up #}
\pard\keepn\qc \b\fs48\cf1 Item Editor\plain\cf2\cb2 
\par \pard\keepn \fs20 In Jed, you specify the properties of the different items with the Item editor. This is a parameter editor, which varies dependently on the current map mode.\fs0 
\par 
\par \pard\keepn \ul \b\ul\fs24\cf1 Sector\plain\b\fs24\cf1\cb2  Mode\plain\cf2\cb2 
\par \pard\keepn \fs20 \{bmc bm33.shg\}\fs0 
\par \pard \fs20 
\par The Item Editor for the \b Sector mode\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  looks the following way:\fs0 
\par \fs20 \{bmc bm34.bmp\}\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par The \b Stay On Top\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  checkbox makes the Item editor stay on top, no matter if it's active or not.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par First, there comes the unchangeable data like the following:\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par The \b heading\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  of the Item Editor shows the item's number (here: 486). It's e.g. the number you specify as a \ul COG\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  parameter.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par The \b Statistics data on the current item\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  is above the editable fields. E.g. this sector has 15 surfaces and 26 vertices.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par Then comes the editable data of this item. A "+" before an entry means that you can double-click on this field to invoke an editor for it.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \pard\li2875\fi-2875\tx2875 \b +FLAGS\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab This value contains the sector properties as flags. By double-clicking on the value, you call up a Flag editor which allows to check and uncheck certain flags (which are explained).\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \b EXTRA LIGHT\plain\b\fs20\cf2\cb2 \plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab Amount of extra light additionally to the normal light calculation. 1=pretty bright, 0= no extra light.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \b +COLORMAP\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab Extra colormap for this sector. Notice that the Master Colormap still has a priority. By Double-clicking you can select a Color map.\fs0 
\par \pard\li2875\fi-2875\tx2875 \fs20 
\par \b +TINT\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab The sector tint. E.g. Underwater sectors usually have blueish tint, sectors full with fuel have yellowish tint. By double-clicking you can select the color.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \b +SOUND\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab The sector's sound. When you enter this sector, the sound will be looped within it. Once you go out, it stops. Double-click will allow to choose the sound.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \b VOLUME\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab The volume of the specified +SOUND.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \b +LAYER\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab The \ul layer\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  of the sector. By double-clicking you can choose from the existing layers. If you enter a completely new layer name, a new layer will be created.\fs0 
\par \pard\li2875\fi-2875\tx2875 \fs20 
\par 
\par \b Used in Cogs\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  pane\tab If this sector is used in Cog(s), it'll be shown below. By double-clicking on the cog, you will be able to edit the parameters of the COG this sector is used in.\fs0 
\par \pard \fs20 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par \page
{\up +}
{\up $}
{\up #}
\pard\keepn\qc \b\fs48\cf1 Item Editor\plain\cf2\cb2 
\par \pard\keepn \fs20 In Jed, you specify the properties of the different items with the Item editor. This is a parameter editor, which varies dependently on the current map mode.\fs0 
\par 
\par \pard\keepn \ul \b\ul\fs24\cf1 Surface\plain\b\fs24\cf1\cb2  Mode\plain\cf2\cb2 
\par \pard\keepn \fs20 \{bmc bm35.shg\}\fs0 
\par \pard \fs20 
\par The Item Editor for the \b Surface mode\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  looks the following way:\fs0 
\par \fs20 \{bmc bm36.bmp\}\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par The \b Stay On Top\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  checkbox makes the Item editor stay on top, no matter if it's active or not.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par First, there comes the unchangeable data like the following:\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par The \b heading\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  of the Item Editor shows the item's number (here: \ul Sector\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  7, Surface 28). It's e.g. the number you specify as a \ul COG\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  parameter (in this case: 7 28) .\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par The \b Statistics data on the current item\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  is above the editable fields. E.g. this surface has 4 vertices.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par Then comes the editable data of this item. A "+" before an entry means that you can double-click on this field to invoke an editor for it.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \pard\li2875\fi-2875\tx2875 \b +MATERIAL\tab \plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 This value specifies this surface's texture. By double-clicking you will be able to choose one with the Resource Picker.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \b U scale\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab This value specifies the horizontal scaling of the texture. Values <1 mean the texture is zoomed in, >1 mean it's zoomed out. Value =1 means no scaling.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \b V scale\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab Same as U scale, but for vertical texture scaling.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \b +GEO\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab Specifies the GEO mode of this surface. Mostly used values are 0 and 4. Here's the list: (0=Not Rendered; 1=Draw Vertices; 2=Draw Wireframe; 3=Draw Solid Color; 4,5=Draw Textured).\fs0 \line
\fs20 0 is used on adjoined surfaces so no texture is shown. 4 is used on normal surfaces and on adjoined surfaces to display a texture (like on translucent adjoins or on grates).\fs0 
\par \pard\li2875\fi-2875\tx2875 \fs20 
\par \b +TEX\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab The Texture mode. 0=affine texturing; all else means Perspective texturing. Default mode is 1.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \b +LIGHT MODE\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab The Lighting mode of this face. Values are: (0=Fully lit; 1=Not lit; 2=Diffuse; 3=Gouraud). The usual value is Gouraud (makes those nice lighting effects). But if you want a surface to be always lit (on lamps etc.), the Value 0 is good.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \ul \b\ul ADJOIN\plain\b\fs20\cf2\cb2 \plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab The absolute (JK) surface number of the adjoined surface. If there is none, it is -1.\fs0 
\par \pard\li2875\fi-2875\tx2875 \fs20 
\par \b +ADJOIN FLAGS\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab Lets you choose the Adjoin flags with a double-click. The values are explained in the Adjoin Flags window.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \b +SURF FLAGS\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab The flags of the surface. Editable with a double-click.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \b +FACE FLAGS\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab The face flags. Double-click to choose. They determine such effects like translucent face.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \b EXTRA LIGHT\plain\b\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab \plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 Specifies an extra amount of light to lighten up the surface additionally to the normal lighting. 1 is pretty bright, and 0 means no extra light.\fs0 
\par \pard\li2875\fi-2875\tx2875 \fs20 
\par 
\par \b Used in Cogs\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  pane\tab If this surface is used in Cog(s), it'll be shown below. By double-clicking on the cog, you will be able to edit the parameters of the COG this surface is used in.\fs0 
\par \pard \fs20 
\par 
\par \page
{\up +}
{\up $}
{\up #}
\pard\keepn\qc \b\fs48\cf1 Item Editor\plain\cf2\cb2 
\par \pard\keepn \fs20 In Jed, you specify the properties of the different items with the Item editor. This is a parameter editor, which varies dependently on the current map mode.\fs0 
\par 
\par \pard\keepn \ul \b\ul\fs24\cf1 Vertex\plain\b\fs24\cf1\cb2  Mode\plain\cf2\cb2 
\par \pard\keepn \fs20 \{bmc bm37.shg\}\fs0 
\par \pard \fs20 
\par The Item Editor for the \b Vertex Mode\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  looks the following way:\fs0 
\par \fs20 \{bmc bm38.bmp\}\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par The \b Stay On Top\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  checkbox makes the Item editor stay on top, no matter if it's active or not.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par First, there comes the unchangeable data like the following:\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par The \b heading\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  of the Item Editor shows the item's number (here: \ul Sector\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  7 Vertex 0).\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par Then comes the editable data of this item. A "+" before an entry means that you can double-click on this field to invoke an editor for it.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \pard\li2875\fi-2875\tx2875 \b X,Y,Z\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab These values are the world coordinates of this vertex in \ul JKU\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 .\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par 
\par The \b Used in Cogs\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  pane is unused in the Vertex mode.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par 
\par \pard 
\par \page
{\up +}
{\up $}
{\up #}
\pard\keepn\qc \b\fs48\cf1 Item Editor\plain\cf2\cb2 
\par \pard\keepn \fs20 In Jed, you specify the properties of the different items with the Item editor. This is a parameter editor, which varies dependently on the current map mode.\fs0 
\par 
\par \pard\keepn \ul \b\ul\fs24\cf1 Edge\plain\b\fs24\cf1\cb2  Mode\plain\cf2\cb2 
\par \pard\keepn \fs20 \{bmc bm39.shg\}\fs0 
\par \pard \fs20 
\par The Item Editor for the \b Edge Mode\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  looks the following way:\fs0 
\par \fs20 \{bmc bm40.bmp\}\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par The \b Stay On Top\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  checkbox makes the Item editor stay on top, no matter if it's active or not.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par First, there comes the unchangeable data like the following:\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par The \b heading\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  of the Item Editor shows the item's number (here: Sec 7 Surf 28 Edge 0).\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par Then comes the editable data of this item. A "+" before an entry means that you can double-click on this field to invoke an editor for it.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par 
\par \pard\li2875\fi-2875\tx2875 \b Starting VX\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab The absolute number of the \ul vertex\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  this Edge is starting with.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \b Ending VX\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab The absolute number of the vertex this Edge is ending with.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \b Length\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab The length of the face in \ul JKU\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 .\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \pard 
\par The \b Used in Cogs\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  pane is unused in the Edge mode.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par 
\par 
\par \page
{\up +}
{\up $}
{\up #}
\pard\keepn\qc \b\fs48\cf1 Item Editor\plain\cf2\cb2 
\par \pard\keepn \fs20 In Jed, you specify the properties of the different items with the Item editor. This is a parameter editor, which varies dependently on the current map mode.\fs0 
\par 
\par \pard\keepn \ul \b\ul\fs24\cf1 Thing\plain\b\fs24\cf1\cb2  Mode\plain\cf2\cb2 
\par \pard\keepn \fs20 \{bmc bm41.shg\}\fs0 
\par \pard \fs20 
\par The Item Editor for the \b Thing mode\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  looks the following way:\fs0 
\par \fs20 \{bmc bm42.bmp\}\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par The \b Stay On Top\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  checkbox makes the Item editor stay on top, no matter if it's active or not.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par First, there comes the unchangeable data like the following:\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par The \b heading\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  of the Item Editor shows the item's number (here: 318). It's e.g. the number you specify as a \ul COG\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  parameter.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par Then comes the editable data of this item. A "+" before an entry means that you can double-click on this field to invoke an editor for it.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \pard\li2875\fi-2875\tx2875 \b +NAME\tab \plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 The \ul template\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  name. By double-clicking you can select a template.\fs0 
\par \b\fs20 
\par SECTOR\plain\b\fs20\cf2\cb2 \plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab The number of the Sector in which the thing lies. Must be correct, or the things will disappear from time to time.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \b X,Y,Z\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab The world coordinates of the thing in \ul JKU\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 .\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \b PCH\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab The Pitch value of the thing in degrees.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \b YAW\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab The Yaw value of the thing in degrees.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \b ROL\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab The Roll value of the thing in degrees.\fs0 
\par \pard\li2875\fi-2875\tx2875 \fs20 
\par \b +LAYER\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab The \ul layer\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  this thing is on. Double-click to select.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par 
\par \pard You can also add and edit further values specified by the template. There are values like \b THINGFLAGS\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 , \b NUMFRAMES\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 ,\b  FRAME\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  etc.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \pard\li2875\fi-2875\tx2875 \b THINGFLAGS\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab The flags of this special thing are specified. Double-click to edit.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \b NUMFRAMES\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab The number of Frames this thing has.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \b FRAME...\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab The values of the coordinates in Frame format (X/Y/Z:Y/P/P) for each frame. To edit Frames, better use the Frame mode.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \b Used in Cogs\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  pane\tab If this thing is used in Cog(s), it'll be shown below. By double-clicking on the cog, you will be able to edit the parameters of the COG this thing is used in.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par There are further 4 buttons below.\fs0 
\par \pard\li2875\fi-2875\tx2875 \fs20 
\par \b Add Value\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab Adds a value (asking you for the value name). So you are able to edit thing properties to vary from the pre-defined template settings.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \b Remove Value\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab Removes a custom value.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \b Copy as Frame\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab Copies the thing's coordinates and Y/P/R setting in the Frame format.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \b Paste\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab Pastes the frame format clipboard contents into the single X,Y,Z,Yaw,Pitch,Roll fields.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \pard\tx2875 
\par 
\par 
\par \pard 
\par \page
{\up +}
{\up $}
{\up #}
\pard\keepn\qc \b\fs48\cf1 Item Editor\plain\cf2\cb2 
\par \pard\keepn \fs20 In Jed, you specify the properties of the different items with the Item editor. This is a parameter editor, which varies dependently on the current map mode.\fs0 
\par 
\par \pard\keepn \ul \b\ul\fs24\cf1 Light\plain\b\fs24\cf1\cb2  Mode\plain\cf2\cb2 
\par \pard\keepn \fs20 \{bmc bm43.shg\}\fs0 
\par \pard \fs20 
\par The Item Editor for the \b Light mode\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  looks the following way:\fs0 
\par \fs20 \{bmc bm44.bmp\}\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par The \b Stay On Top\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  checkbox makes the Item editor stay on top, no matter if it's active or not.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par First, there comes the unchangeable data like the following:\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par The \b heading\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  of the Item Editor shows the item's number (here: 117).\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par Then comes the editable data of this item. A "+" before an entry means that you can double-click on this field to invoke an editor for it.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \pard\li2875\fi-2875\tx2875 \b Intensity\tab \plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 The intensity of the light.\fs0 
\par \b\fs20 
\par Range\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab The light's range in \ul JKU\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 . Combine these two values to vary the light's force.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \b X,Y,Z\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab The world coordinates of the light center in JKU.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \b +FLAGS \plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab The flags settings of the light. Double-click to edit.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \b +RGB\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab \ul \i\ul MotS\plain\i\fs20\cf2\cb2  only \plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 The RGB color of the light. Double click to select a color.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \b RGBIntensity\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab \i MotS only\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  The intensity of the RGB light\fs0 
\par \pard\li2875\fi-2875\tx2875 \fs20 
\par \b +LAYER\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab The \ul layer\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  on which this light is on.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \pard The \b Used in Cogs\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  pane is unused in the Light mode.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par 
\par 
\par \page
{\up +}
{\up $}
{\up #}
\pard\keepn\qc \b\fs48\cf1 Item Editor\plain\cf2\cb2 
\par \pard\keepn \fs20 In Jed, you specify the properties of the different items with the Item editor. This is a parameter editor, which varies dependently on the current map mode.\fs0 
\par 
\par \pard\keepn \ul \b\ul\fs24\cf1 Thing Frame\plain\b\fs24\cf1\cb2  Mode\plain\cf2\cb2 
\par \pard\keepn \fs20 \{bmc bm45.shg\}\fs0 
\par \pard \fs20 
\par The Item Editor for the \ul \b\ul Thing\plain\b\fs20\cf2\cb2  Frame mode\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  has actually 2 submodes.\fs0 
\par \fs24 
\par \b Thing Frame Statistics\plain\cf2\cb2 
\par \fs20 \{bml bm46.bmp\}\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par This mode is on, if no frame is currently selected or available. The thing is shown on its original place, with its central point marked red.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par The \b Stay On Top\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  checkbox makes the Item editor stay on top, no matter if it's active or not.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par The \b heading\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  of the Item Editor shows the Thing's number (here: 184).\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par Then comes only the \b NUMFRAMES\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  variable which shows how many Frames a thing has.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \pard \b\fs24 Active Frames\plain\cf2\cb2 
\par \fs20 
\par \{bmc bm47.bmp\}\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par With \b INS\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 , you can add new frames to the current thing(Deleting will go with \b DEL\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 ). With the \b N\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 (ext) and \b P\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 (revious) keys, you can cycle through the frames. On the map, always the current frame is shown as the thing outlining. The inactive frames are shown as dots. You can change the properties of the current frame (like coordinates etc.) by either dragging with the mouse, or by changing the parameters.\fs0 
\par \pard \fs20 
\par The \b Stay On Top\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  checkbox makes the Item editor stay on top, no matter if it's active or not.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par The \b heading\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  of the Item Editor shows the Thing's number and the current Frame(here: 184 Frame 0).\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par Then comes the editable data of this item. A "+" before an entry means that you can double-click on this field to invoke an editor for it.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \pard\li2875\fi-2875\tx2875 \b X,Y,Z\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab The world coordinates of the frame in \ul JKU\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 .\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \b PCH\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab The Pitch value of the frame in degrees.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \b YAW\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab The Yaw value of the frame in degrees.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \b ROL\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab The Roll value of the frame in degrees.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \pard 
\par The \b Used in Cogs\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  pane is unused in the Thing Frame mode.\fs0 
\par \pard\li2875\fi-2875\tx2875 \fs20 
\par There are further 2 buttons below.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \b Copy as Frame\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab Copies the thing's frame coordinates and Y/P/R setting in the Frame format.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \b Paste\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab Pastes the frame format clipboard contents into the single X,Y,Z,Yaw,Pitch,Roll fields.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par 
\par \pard 
\par \page
{\up +}
{\up $}
{\up #}
\pard\keepn\qc \b\fs48\cf1 Installation\plain\cf2\cb2 
\par \pard \fs20 
\par \i\b\fs24\cf6 How to install JED\plain\cf2\cb2 
\par \fs20 
\par Here you will learn how to install JED to be able to work properly.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par 1. Just unzip all the files contained in the JED package to a directory you want to have Jed in, e.g. C:\'5cJED (when unzipping, be sure to keep the directory structure).\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par You shall have the following files in your directory:\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \b \'5cJED root directory\plain\cf2\cb2 
\par \pard\li3505\fi-2785\tx3505 \fs20 Jed.exe\tab JED program file\fs0 
\par \fs20 History.txt\tab JED \uldb Revision History\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  text file\fs0 
\par \pard\li715\tx3505 \fs20 
\par \pard\li3505\fi-2785\tx3505 \b \'5cJeddata\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab \b This directory contains the data needed for JED to work. Don't play around with this one!\plain\cf2\cb2 
\par \pard\li3505\fi-2245\tx3505 \fs20 Mats.jlh\tab Textures resource list structure\fs0 
\par \fs20 Mtpls.jlh\tab \ul MotS\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  Templates resource list structure\fs0 
\par \fs20 Tpls.jlh\tab \ul JK\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  Templates resource list structure\fs0 
\par \fs20 Mats.jll\tab Textures resource lists\fs0 
\par \fs20 Mtpls.jll\tab MotS Templates resource list\fs0 
\par \fs20 Tpls.jll\tab JK Templates resource list\fs0 
\par \fs20 Df2jk.lst\tab \ul Dark Forces\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  to Jedi Knight objects conversion\fs0 
\par \fs20 Master.tpl\tab JK Templates list\fs0 
\par \fs20 Mots.tpl\tab MotS Templates list\fs0 
\par \fs20 Shapes.tpl\tab Pre-definitions for \uldb Shape creation\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \fs0 
\par \pard\li1255\tx3505 \fs20 
\par \pard\li3505\fi-2785\tx3505 \b \'5cPlugins\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab \b This directory contains the Plugins for JED.\plain\cf2\cb2 
\par \pard\li3505\fi-2245\tx3505 \fs20 jktree.dsc\tab Description file for the supplied JKTree \ul Plugin\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \fs0 
\par \fs20 jktree.exe\tab The supplied JKTree Plugin.\fs0 
\par \pard\li1255\tx3505 \fs20 
\par \pard\li3505\fi-2785\tx3505 \b \'5cSDK\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab \b This directory contains the Software Development Kit for JED DLL Plugin interface. \plain\cf2\cb2 
\par \pard\li3505\fi-2245\tx3505 \fs20 Jed_plugins.pas\tab JED Plugin interface unit for Delphi (2 & 3).\fs0 
\par \fs20 Jed_plugins.h\tab JED Plugin interface for C++\fs0 
\par \fs20 Readme.txt\tab Readme file for JED DLL Plugin SDK.\fs0 
\par \fs20 Sample.zip\tab A sample Delphi project for Jed DLL interface.\fs0 
\par \fs20 Formsample.zip\tab A sample Delphi project demonstrating how to use forms in DLL plugins.\fs0 
\par \pard \fs20 
\par 2. Setup a shortcut for JED in your Start menu or on the desktop.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par 3. When running JED for the first time, it prompts you to specify the paths for your Jedi Knight / MotS installation and CD. JED tries first to suggest the paths from the registry. Notice: even if you have a full harddisk installation of JK, you'll need either a JK or a MotS CD in the drive for JED to run.\fs0 
\par \fs20 If you don't possess MotS, just don't do anything about the path fields. \fs0 
\par \fs20 You can change the paths later in the \uldb Options\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 .\fs0 
\par \pard \fs20 
\par 4. When everything is correct, the \uldb main window\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  of JED will appear. \fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par 
\par \i\b\fs24\cf6 How to install Plugins\plain\cf2\cb2 
\par \fs20 
\par There are already multiple plugins available for JED which are operating through JED's OLE interface (JED 0.91 or higher has also a DLL plugin interface). The plugins usually are contained in ZIP files. Here are some instructions to install plugins.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par Let's suggest you have downloaded some really cool plugin called "Cool Plugin".\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par 1. Create a subdirectory in your \'5cPLUGINS subdir of JED. Give it a good name (because it's what will appear in the Plugins menu). For example "Cool Plugin".\fs0 
\par \pard \fs20 
\par 2. Extract all the files from your ZIP file into this directory. There are usually an .EXE or a .DLL file (the Plugin itself), a .DSC file (a description file for the Plugin with a menu item name and a keyboard hotkey), and maybe some TXT, DOC or HTML files explaining what this plugin does and how to use it.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par Finito! The next time you run JED, the plugin will be plugged-in.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par 
\par \page
{\up +}
{\up $}
{\up #}
\pard\keepn\qc \b\fs48\cf1 Introduction\plain\cf2\cb2 
\par \pard\keepn 
\par \pard \fs20 
\par \tab JED is a Jedi Knight: \ul Dark Forces\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  II level editor. With it, you are able to create custom Single player (SP) and Multi player (MP) levels. However, to get used to it, you have to learn its multiple operations and possibilities. That's what this help file is for. Contrary to the previous help files for JED (up to 0.51), there will not only be keyboard summaries and What's New? topics. The help contains information on the menus, dialog boxes etc.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par JED is a level editor for Jedi Knight/MotS. Its main purpose is to edit the geometry aspect of the level. Although \ul JK\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  levels consist of many aspects which can be edited, JED does not edit textures, sound, or text resources editing like \ul COG\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 , \ul AI\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  etc. JED can link them with the level and treat them properly, but the main things JED does are geometry, object placement, COG linking, texturing. For other editing aspects, there are other programs like CogWriter, MatMaster, or TrajJedi, just to name a few.\fs0 
\par \pard \fs20 
\par 
\par \page
{\up $}
{\up #}
\pard\keepn {\up K}
\fs48\cf1 Glossary\fs0\cf2 
\par \fs48\cf1 \{bmc bm0.shg\}\fs0\cf2 
\par \pard \ul \ul\fs20 3DO\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab \tab \fs0 
\par {\up #}

\par \b\ul\fs27 A\plain\cf2\cb2 
\par \ul \ul\fs20 Adjoin\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab \tab \fs0 
\par \ul \ul\fs20 AI\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab \tab \fs0 
\par {\up #}

\par \b\ul\fs27 C\plain\cf2\cb2 
\par \ul \ul\fs20 Cleave\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab \tab \fs0 
\par \ul \ul\fs20 Code Alliance\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab \tab \fs0 
\par \ul \ul\fs20 COG\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab \tab \fs0 
\par \ul \ul\fs20 Container\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab \tab \fs0 
\par \ul \ul\fs20 Convex\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab \tab \fs0 
\par {\up #}

\par \b\ul\fs27 D\plain\cf2\cb2 
\par \ul \ul\fs20 Dark Forces\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab \tab \fs0 
\par \ul \ul\fs20 DFU\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab \tab \fs0 
\par {\up #}

\par \b\ul\fs27 E\plain\cf2\cb2 
\par \ul \ul\fs20 Edge\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab \tab \fs0 
\par {\up #}

\par \b\ul\fs27 G\plain\cf2\cb2 
\par \ul \ul\fs20 GOB\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab \tab \fs0 
\par \ul \ul\fs20 GOO\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab \tab \fs0 
\par {\up #}

\par \b\ul\fs27 J\plain\cf2\cb2 
\par \ul \ul\fs20 JK\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab \tab \fs0 
\par \ul \ul\fs20 JKU\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab \tab \fs0 
\par {\up #}

\par \b\ul\fs27 K\plain\cf2\cb2 
\par \ul \ul\fs20 KEY\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab \tab \fs0 
\par \pard {\up #}

\par \b\ul\fs27 L\plain\cf2\cb2 
\par \ul \ul\fs20 Layer\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab \tab \fs0 
\par \ul \ul\fs20 Light\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab \tab \fs0 
\par {\up #}

\par \b\ul\fs27 M\plain\cf2\cb2 
\par \ul \ul\fs20 MAT\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab \tab \fs0 
\par \ul \ul\fs20 MotS\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab \tab \fs0 
\par \ul \ul\fs20 Mysteries Of The Sith\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab \tab \fs0 
\par {\up #}

\par \b\ul\fs27 P\plain\cf2\cb2 
\par \ul \ul\fs20 Plugin\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab \tab \fs0 
\par \ul \ul\fs20 PUP\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab \tab \fs0 
\par {\up #}

\par \b\ul\fs27 S\plain\cf2\cb2 
\par \ul \ul\fs20 Sector\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab \tab \fs0 
\par \ul \ul\fs20 Shape\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab \tab \fs0 
\par \ul \ul\fs20 Stitch\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab \tab \fs0 
\par \ul \ul\fs20 Surface\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab \tab \fs0 
\par {\up #}

\par \b\ul\fs27 T\plain\cf2\cb2 
\par \ul \ul\fs20 Template\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab \tab \fs0 
\par \ul \ul\fs20 Thing\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab \tab \fs0 
\par \ul \ul\fs20 Thing Frame\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab \tab \fs0 
\par {\up #}

\par \b\ul\fs27 V\plain\cf2\cb2 
\par \ul \ul\fs20 Vertex\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab \tab \fs0 
\par {\up #}

\par \b\ul\fs27 W\plain\cf2\cb2 
\par \pard \ul \ul\fs20 WAV\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 \tab \tab \fs0 
\par {\up #}

\par \page
\pard \b\fs24 3DO\plain\cf2\cb2 
\par {\up #}
\fs20 3DO stands for "3D object", a three-dimensional model. In Jedi Knight, all powerups, weapons and enemies/persons are made as textured 3D polygon models. Also pieces of architecture can be built of 3DO objects.\fs0 
\par \page
\pard \b\fs24 Adjoin\plain\cf2\cb2 
\par {\up #}
\fs20 Adjoin connects two sectors together so that you can see/get from one into another \ul sector\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 . Imagine a room sector and a door track sector which have to be connected. To connect them, they have to have two surfaces in common (of equal shape/location). These you can adjoin, thus creating a link between two sectors/surfaces.\fs0 
\par \page
\pard \b\fs24 AI\plain\cf2\cb2 
\par {\up #}
\fs20 AI files are text file definitions of the Artificial Intelligence of things.  AI files contain so-called instincts which declare which abilities e.g. an enemy has and how they are set.\fs0 
\par \page
\pard \b\fs24 Cleave\plain\cf2\cb2 
\par {\up #}
\fs20 Cleave means cut a sector/surface/edge into 2 parts. For example, if you cleave a \ul sector\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  (Press C, and draw a cleaving line), it shall be divided into 2 adjoined sectors. Same with surfaces and edges. The opposite of cleaving is Merging.\fs0 
\par \page
\pard \b\fs24 Code Alliance\plain\cf2\cb2 
\par {\up #}
\fs20 \{bml bm1.bmp\}The Code Alliance is a group of hobby programmers which origined from \ul Dark Forces\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  level development. The Code Alliance makes utilities/programs for DF, \ul JK\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 , Outlaws, XvT editing.\fs0 
\par \fs20 The homepage of the Code Alliance: http://www.darkjedi.com/\fs0 
\par \page
\pard \b\fs24 COG\plain\cf2\cb2 
\par {\up #}
\fs20 COG is the JK/MotS internal C-like language which handles the level's dynamics: COG controls the goal completion, weapons, force powers, special behavor of persons/items....\fs0 
\par \page
\pard \b\fs24 Container\plain\cf2\cb2 
\par {\up #}
\fs20 "Containers" are usually large data files which contain multiple resource files. For example, in \ul JK\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 , the whole mass of texture, sound, \ul 3DO\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  etc. resources is contained in a few large \ul GOB\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  files.\fs0 
\par \fs20 Custom levels should also usually be distributed in GOB/GOO containers to avoid conflicts and simply because one big file is easier to handle than 100 small ones.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \page
\pard \b\fs24 Convex\plain\cf2\cb2 
\par {\up #}
\fs20 Convex is a condition for a surface/sector to be to be valid in Jedi Knight. Convex means that there are no "cut-ins". Let's suppose, you take a \ul surface\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  and draw endless lines on each \ul edge\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  of it. If no line crosses an edge, the surface is convex. If one does, the surface is concave and not valid. Same is valid for sectors.\fs0 
\par \page
\pard \b\fs24 Dark Forces\plain\cf2\cb2 
\par {\up #}
\fs20 Dark Forces (DF) was the prequel game to Jedi Knight. It is a solely SP game about Kyle Katarn for which a large bunch of excellent Single Player levels exist. The \ul Code Alliance\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  has its beginning in the Dark Forces editing community.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par You can import the geometry and objects of Dark Forces levels (.LEV) into JED by the File->Import command.\fs0 
\par \page
\pard \b\fs24 DFU\plain\cf2\cb2 
\par {\up #}
\fs20 DFU stands for "Dark Forces Unit". One DFU is 8 texels (texture pixels). A DFU approximately corresponds to 25 cm; thus, one \ul JKU\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  is equal 40 DFU.\fs0 
\par \page
\pard \b\fs24 Edge\plain\cf2\cb2 
\par {\up #}
\fs20 \{bmc bm48.bmp\} A \ul surface\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  is built out of edges which are built by two vertices.\fs0 
\par \page
\pard \b\fs24 GOB\plain\cf2\cb2 
\par {\up #}
\fs20 GOB is the \ul container\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  type Jedi Knight uses (and also used to be in \ul Dark Forces\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 ). \ul MotS\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  uses .GOB files with the .GOO ending.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par To GOB a project means to create a container file with all the project resources ready for distribution.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par 
\par \page
\pard \b\fs24 GOO\plain\cf2\cb2 
\par {\up #}
\fs20 GOO is a \ul container\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  file used in \ul MotS\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 . There is no internal difference between GOO and \ul GOB\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  files.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par See GOB definition.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \page
\pard \b\fs24 JK\plain\cf2\cb2 
\par {\up #}
\fs20 JK stands for "Jedi Knight", the award-winning \ul Dark Forces\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  sequel. JED is the level editor for Jedi Knight.\fs0 
\par \page
\pard \b\fs24 JKU\plain\cf2\cb2 
\par {\up #}
\fs20 JKU means "Jedi Knight Unit" and is a unit used to measure the distances in. 1 JKU corresponds to 10 meters, and to 320 texels (texture pixels) at scaling 1.\fs0 
\par \page
\pard \b\fs24 KEY\plain\cf2\cb2 
\par {\up #}
\fs20 KEY files are trajectory files for 3D objects and meshes (which are subparts of 3D objects). KEY files can control flying ships, but also the movements of the joints of the persons, or of weapons.\fs0 
\par \page
\pard \b\fs24 Layer\plain\cf2\cb2 
\par {\up #}
\fs20 Layers are JED-internal structures to order the level and make it more comfortable to edit. You can define different layers (e.g. Floor1, Floor2 etc.), assign sectors, things, lights etc. to certain layers and then turn them on/off for easier editing.\fs0 
\par \page
\pard \b\fs24 Light\plain\cf2\cb2 
\par {\up #}
\fs20 Lights are JED-internal light source objects. You set them up in your sectors to make them more or less lighted. You can change the light's intensity and range, thus enabling you to create either diffuse and equal lighting or dim and mysterious one. The calculation of the level's lighting is performed from the Tools menu.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \ul MotS\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  also supports colored lights.\fs0 
\par \page
\pard \b\fs24 MAT\plain\cf2\cb2 
\par {\up #}
\fs20 MAT files are texture files used by Jedi Knight. MAT files can contain multiple cels (=frames); they also can contain up to 4 MipMaps (texture detail levels).\fs0 
\par \fs20 There are also "Color MATs" which actually consist only of solid colors and are used e.g. for particle systems.\fs0 
\par \page
\pard \b\fs24 MotS\plain\cf2\cb2 
\par {\up #}
\fs20 MotS is an abbreviation for "Mysteries Of The Sith" addon CD. MotS editing has some enhanced aspects like colored lighting. Also, MotS has some more goodies on CD (like more atmospheric 3DOs, more enemies, and more sounds).\fs0 
\par \page
\pard \b\fs24 Mysteries Of The Sith\plain\cf2\cb2 
\par {\up #}
\fs20 Mysteries Of The Sith is an addon CD for Jedi Knight. \ul MotS\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  editing has some enhanced aspects like colored lighting. Also, MotS has some more goodies on CD (like more atmospheric 3DOs, more enemies, and more sounds).\fs0 
\par \page
\pard \b\fs24 Plugin\plain\cf2\cb2 
\par {\up #}
\fs20 A Plugin is an external Program or DLL which corresponds with JED, thus adding to JED's functionality. A plugin can get some JED data (multiselection, statistics, Resource picking etc.), and write its own data after processing (for example, dublicate items in some way, or make some operations automatically etc.). You can get JED plugins on the \ul Code Alliance\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  homepage.\fs0 
\par \page
\pard \b\fs24 PUP\plain\cf2\cb2 
\par {\up #}
\fs20 PUP files are Puppet definitions of 3D objects. They assign \ul KEY\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  files to different actions an object can have. The PUP definition regulates the movements of a 3D object.\fs0 
\par \page
\pard \b\fs24 Sector\plain\cf2\cb2 
\par {\up #}
\fs20 \{bmc bm49.bmp\} The sectors are kind of "rooms". In \ul JK\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 , levels are not built in space, but kind of are carved out of solid matter. Sectors are rooms where the player can move. The action can only happen in the sectors. Sectors must be \ul convex\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  in Jedi Knight.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \page
\pard \b\fs24 Shape\plain\cf2\cb2 
\par {\up #}
\fs20 Shapes are predefined \ul sector\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  forms which can be created by pressing the K \ul key\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  + moving the mouse. There are basic simple shapes already available in JED. However you can define your own shapes by exporting sector(s).\fs0 
\par \page
\pard \b\fs24 Stitch\plain\cf2\cb2 
\par {\up #}
\fs20 To stitch a texture means to continue the texture alignment on further walls. For example, you have a room with walls built of multiple surfaces. You only have to setup the texturing for one wall, and then use stitching to make the texturing "flow" from one \ul surface\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  to another.\fs0 
\par \page
\pard \b\fs24 Surface\plain\cf2\cb2 
\par {\up #}
\fs20 \{bmc bm50.bmp\} Surfaces are the planar ingredients of a \ul sector\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 . Surfaces are e.g. walls, floors, ceilings. They must be planar and they must be \ul convex\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2 .\fs0 
\par \page
\pard \b\fs24 Template\plain\cf2\cb2 
\par {\up #}
\fs20 Things are based on templates. The templates are inheritable structures of properties, i.e. one template can inherit most properties from another one. In the templates, many properties of things are declared, e.g. the 3D model, the \ul AI\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  logic, the health, the damage, the Thingflags.\fs0 
\par \page
\pard \b\fs24 Thing\plain\cf2\cb2 
\par {\up #}
\fs20 "Things" are objects which do not belong to geometry, i.e. are theoretically able to move. Most things are shown as 3D models, called 3DOs but there are also invisible things ("ghosts"), sprite things (explosions, bubbles) or particle structures. Things are based on templates.\fs0 
\par \page
\pard \b\fs24 Thing Frame\plain\cf2\cb2 
\par {\up #}
\fs20 The Frames stand for different locations of a thing. They are needed for \ul COG\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  programming of moving objects. For example, to enable an elevator to move from one stop to another, the elevator thing will require 2 frames which stand for the elevator's starting and ending position.\fs0 
\par \fs20 
\par \page
\pard \b\fs24 Vertex\plain\cf2\cb2 
\par {\up #}
\fs20 \{bmc bm51.bmp\} Vertices are points of the polygons which lie on the corners. The polygon is "spanned" on the vertices.\fs0 
\par \page
\pard \b\fs24 WAV\plain\cf2\cb2 
\par {\up #}
\fs20 WAV is the common sound format used by Windows PCs. \ul JK\plain\fs20\cf2\cb2  also uses this format (up to 22,5 kHz; 16 Bit) for the sounds.\fs0 
\par \page
\pard \page
}